URL: https://arxiv.org/search/?query=inertial+crawling&searchtype=all&abstracts=show&order=-announced_date_first&size=50

arXiv:2503.19556 [ pdf , other ] cs.RO physics.app-ph doi 10.1089/soro.2024.0036 ZodiAq: An Isotropic Flagella-Inspired Soft Underwater Drone for Safe Marine Exploration Authors: Anup Teejo Mathew , Daniel Feliu-Talegon , Yusuf Abdullahi Adamu , Ikhlas Ben Hmida , Costanza Armanini , Cesare Stefanini , Lakmal Seneviratne , Federico Renda Abstract : …redundancy and compliance, ideal for navigating complex underwater terrains. The prototype features a central unit based on a Raspberry Pi, connected to a sensory system for inertial , depth, and vision detection, and an acoustic modem for communication. Combined with the implemented control law, it renders ZodiAq an intelligent system. This paper details the… ▽ More The inherent challenges of robotic underwater exploration, such as hydrodynamic effects, the complexity of dynamic coupling, and the necessity for sensitive interaction with marine life, call for the adoption of soft robotic approaches in marine exploration. To address this, we present a novel prototype, ZodiAq, a soft underwater drone inspired by prokaryotic bacterial flagella. ZodiAq's unique dodecahedral structure, equipped with 12 flagella-like arms, ensures design redundancy and compliance, ideal for navigating complex underwater terrains. The prototype features a central unit based on a Raspberry Pi, connected to a sensory system for inertial , depth, and vision detection, and an acoustic modem for communication. Combined with the implemented control law, it renders ZodiAq an intelligent system. This paper details the design and fabrication process of ZodiAq, highlighting design choices and prototype capabilities. Based on the strain-based modeling of Cosserat rods, we have developed a digital twin of the prototype within a simulation toolbox to ease analysis and control. To optimize its operation in dynamic aquatic conditions, a simplified model-based controller has been developed and implemented, facilitating intelligent and adaptive movement in the hydrodynamic environment. Extensive experimental demonstrations highlight the drone's potential, showcasing its design redundancy, embodied intelligence, crawling gait, and practical applications in diverse underwater settings. This research contributes significantly to the field of underwater soft robotics, offering a promising new avenue for safe, efficient, and environmentally conscious underwater exploration. △ Less Submitted 25 March, 2025; originally announced March 2025. Comments: 43 pages, including disclaimer page, pre-peer-review version of the manuscript, and supplementary material

arXiv:2402.03759 [ pdf ] cond-mat.soft physics.bio-ph Amoeboid movement utilizes the shape coupled bifurcation of an active droplet to boost ballistic motion Authors: H. Ebata , Y. Nishigami , H. Fujiwara , S. Kidoaki , M. Ichikawa Abstract : One of the essential functions of living organisms is spontaneous migration through the deformation of their body, such as crawling , swimming, and walking. Depending on the size of the object, the efficient migratory mode should be altered because the contribution from the inertial and frictional forces acting on the o… ▽ More One of the essential functions of living organisms is spontaneous migration through the deformation of their body, such as crawling , swimming, and walking. Depending on the size of the object, the efficient migratory mode should be altered because the contribution from the inertial and frictional forces acting on the object switches. Although the self-propelling motion characterizing active matter has been extensively studied, it is still elusive how a living cell utilizes the mode switching of the self-propulsion. Here, we studied the migration dynamics of amoeboid movement of free-living amoeba, Amoeba proteus, for starved and vegetative phases, as typified by dynamic and stationary states, respectively. Fourier-mode analysis on the cell shape and migration velocity extracted two characteristic migration modes, which makes a coexistence of amoeboid-swimmer like random motion and the active-droplet like ballistic motion. While the amoeboid-swimmer mode governs random motion, the active-droplet mode performs non-negligible contribution on the migration strength. By employing the symmetry argument of the active-droplet, we discover the supercritical pitchfork bifurcation of the migration velocity due to the symmetry breaking of the cell shape represents the switching manner from the motionless state to the random and the ballistic motions. Our results suggest that sub-mm sized A. proteus utilizes both shape oscillatory migration of deformed-swimmer driven by surface wave and convection based mass transfer, called blebbing, as like as cm-sized active droplet to optimize the movement efficiency. △ Less Submitted 6 February, 2024; originally announced February 2024.

arXiv:2303.15812 [ pdf , other ] stat.AP Investigating swimming technical skills by a double partition clustering of multivariate functional data allowing for dimension selection Authors: Antoine Bouvet , Salima El Kolei , Matthieu Marbac Abstract : Investigating technical skills of swimmers is a challenge for performance improvement, that can be achieved by analyzing multivariate functional data recorded by Inertial Measurement Units (IMU). To investigate technical levels of front-… ▽ More Investigating technical skills of swimmers is a challenge for performance improvement, that can be achieved by analyzing multivariate functional data recorded by Inertial Measurement Units (IMU). To investigate technical levels of front- crawl swimmers, a new model-based approach is introduced to obtain two complementary partitions reflecting, for each swimmer, its swimming pattern and its ability to reproduce it. Contrary to the usual approaches for functional data clustering, the proposed approach also considers the information of the residuals resulting from the functional basis decomposition. Indeed, after decomposing into functional basis both the original signal (measuring the swimming pattern) and the signal of squared residuals (measuring the ability to reproduce the swimming pattern), the method fits the joint distribution of the coefficients related to both decompositions by considering dependency between both partitions. Modeling this dependency is mandatory since the difficulty of reproducing a swimming pattern depends on its shape. Moreover, a sparse decomposition of the distribution within components that permits a selection of the relevant dimensions during clustering is proposed. The partitions obtained on the IMU data aggregate the kinematical stroke variability linked to swimming technical skills and allow relevant biomechanical strategy for front- crawl sprint performance to be identified. △ Less Submitted 28 March, 2023; originally announced March 2023.

arXiv:2005.10768 [ pdf , other ] cond-mat.soft Surfing and crawling macroscopic active particles under strong confinement -- inertial dynamics Authors: Marco Leoni , Matteo Paoluzzi , Sarah Eldeen , Anthony Estrada , Lauren Nguyen , Maria Alexandrescu , Karin Sherb , Wylie W. Ahmed Abstract : …where thermal forces are often important and inertia is negligible, our macroscopic particles exhibit complex dynamics due expressly to active non-thermal noise combined with inertial effects. Strong confinement induces accumulation at a finite distance within the boundary and gives rise to three distinguishable dynamical states; both depending on activity… ▽ More We study two types of active (self-propelled) macroscopic particles under confinement: camphor surfers and hexbug crawlers, using a combined experimental, theoretical, and numerical approach. Unlike widely studied microscopic active particles and swimmers, where thermal forces are often important and inertia is negligible, our macroscopic particles exhibit complex dynamics due expressly to active non-thermal noise combined with inertial effects. Strong confinement induces accumulation at a finite distance within the boundary and gives rise to three distinguishable dynamical states; both depending on activity and inertia. These surprisingly complex dynamics arise already at the single particle level -- highlighting the importance of inertia in macroscopic active matter. △ Less Submitted 21 October, 2020; v1 submitted 21 May, 2020; originally announced May 2020. Comments: 8 pages, 6 figures

arXiv:1807.05275 [ pdf , other ] cs.RO cs.HC doi 10.1109/IPIN.2018.8533770 LSTM-Based Zero-Velocity Detection for Robust Inertial Navigation Authors: Brandon Wagstaff , Jonathan Kelly Abstract : We present a method to improve the accuracy of a zero-velocity-aided inertial navigation system (INS) by replacing the standard zero-velocity detector with a long short-term memory (LSTM) neural network. While existing threshold-based zero-velocity detectors are not robust to varying motion types, our learned model accurately detects stationary periods of th… ▽ More We present a method to improve the accuracy of a zero-velocity-aided inertial navigation system (INS) by replacing the standard zero-velocity detector with a long short-term memory (LSTM) neural network. While existing threshold-based zero-velocity detectors are not robust to varying motion types, our learned model accurately detects stationary periods of the inertial measurement unit (IMU) despite changes in the motion of the user. Upon detection, zero-velocity pseudo-measurements are fused with a dead reckoning motion model in an extended Kalman filter (EKF). We demonstrate that our LSTM-based zero-velocity detector, used within a zero-velocity-aided INS, improves zero-velocity detection during human localization tasks. Consequently, localization accuracy is also improved.
  Our system is evaluated on more than 7.5 km of indoor pedestrian locomotion data, acquired from five different subjects. We show that 3D positioning error is reduced by over 34% compared to existing fixed-threshold zero-velocity detectors for walking, running, and stair climbing motions. Additionally, we demonstrate how our learned zero-velocity detector operates effectively during crawling and ladder climbing. Our system is calibration-free (no careful threshold-tuning is required) and operates consistently with differing users, IMU placements, and shoe types, while being compatible with any generic zero-velocity-aided INS. △ Less Submitted 13 August, 2019; v1 submitted 13 July, 2018; originally announced July 2018. Comments: In Proceedings of the International Conference on Indoor Positioning and Indoor Navigation (IPIN'18), Nantes, France, Sep. 24-27, 2018