URL: https://arxiv.org/search/?query=inertial+contact+human&searchtype=all&abstracts=show&order=-announced_date_first&size=50

arXiv:2608.07075 [ pdf , ps , other ] cs.RO Detection and Ranging of Transient Extrinsic Contacts Based on 6D Dynamic Tactile Sensing Authors: Haowen Zheng , Yinghao Wu , Fuyuan Liu , Yichen Li , Yitian Shao Abstract : Delicate manipulation often involves transient and subtle collisions between a grasped object and the environment. While the human hand localizes these… ▽ More Delicate manipulation often involves transient and subtle collisions between a grasped object and the environment. While the human hand localizes these contacts effortlessly thanks to superior tactile sensitivity, robotic systems often lack the requisite resolution to acquire the information necessary for motion planning, resulting in clumsy manipulation or even task failure. Here, we propose transient extrinsic contact detection and ranging (TECDAR), a simple yet fast and efficient method for detecting and ranging extrinsic contact of grasped objects. Our design of gripper tips employs dynamic tactile sensing leveraging a single 2.5$\times$3 mm 6D inertial measurement unit. The sensor captures sub-millisecond tip deformations at a 7 kHz sampling rate, but operating on a data stream of only 84 KB/s. High bandwidth and compact data size enable the system to rapidly detect and localize contact between grasped objects and their surroundings. Specifically, fusing tactile data with robot pose via an extended Kalman filter enables fast and precise localization of extrinsic contact , reaching millimeter-level accuracy within 180 ms. Experimental results demonstrate that the system achieves an average localization accuracy of approximately 7\,mm in both line- contact and point- contact localization tasks. Furthermore, this near-instantaneous localization enables the robot to rectify its trajectory on a millisecond scale, facilitating precise tool manipulation and enhanced perception of complex environments purely through tactile exploration and mapping. We envision such techniques advancing the future of robotics across domains requiring delicate manipulation, including precision assembly, surgical assistance, and autonomous exploration in touch-dominant environments. Project page: humitlab.github.io/TECDAR/ △ Less Submitted 7 August, 2026; originally announced August 2026.

arXiv:2607.12909 [ pdf , ps , other ] q-bio.NC cs.AI cs.CV Real-time fall detection based on vision for low-power edge platforms Authors: Wenjun Xia , Zhicheng Peng , Haopeng Li , Zhengdi Zhang Abstract : …vision-based approaches predominantly frame it as static pose classification or discrete temporal pattern matching, fundamentally overlooking the instability dynamics of the human support system. This paper proposes a physics-informed falling detection framework that recasts falling as a stability-loss event in a coupled dynamical system. We introduce a nove… ▽ More Falling detection is vital for elderly care and intelligent surveillance; however, prevailing vision-based approaches predominantly frame it as static pose classification or discrete temporal pattern matching, fundamentally overlooking the instability dynamics of the human support system. This paper proposes a physics-informed falling detection framework that recasts falling as a stability-loss event in a coupled dynamical system. We introduce a novel dual-LTC architecture comprising a Center-of-Mass (CoM) subsystem and a Base-of-Support (BoS) subsystem, both instantiated as Liquid Time-Constant (LTC) neural networks to continuously model inertial trajectory evolution and ground- contact adjustment through adaptive time constants, Physical interpretability of falling motion. A learnable coupling module emulates physical interaction between the two subsystems, while a Stability Manifold classifier operates in the joint latent space to detect boundary crossing via Lyapunov-inspired stability metrics. Complementary counterfactual trajectory projection and Time-to-Collision (TTC) estimation further enable irreversibility assessment and early warning. The architecture is designed to support a three-state prediction paradigm (Normal, Falling, Fallen); in this preliminary study, we validate the core stability discrimination capability on a two-class dataset (Normal vs. Falling), leaving the full three-state temporal transition to future work. Unlike conventional CNN--RNN pipelines, the proposed formulation encodes continuous-time mechanical inertia, yielding a sub-50K-parameter network capable of real-time inference on resource-constrained edge devices. Extensive experiments demonstrate competitive accuracy with superior physical interpretability, validating its efficacy for low-compute visual fall detection. △ Less Submitted 14 July, 2026; originally announced July 2026.

arXiv:2606.28604 [ pdf , ps , other ] cs.CV IMU-HOI: A Symbiotic Framework for Coherent Human -Object Interaction and Motion Capture via Contact -Conscious Inertial Fusion Authors: Lizhou Lin , Songpengcheng Xia , Zengyuan Lai , Lan Sun , Jiarui Yang , Ling Pei Abstract : Capturing full-body human motion with object interactions is crucial for AR/VR and robotics applications, yet it remains challenging for conventional vision-based methods due to occlusions and constrained capture volumes.… ▽ More Capturing full-body human motion with object interactions is crucial for AR/VR and robotics applications, yet it remains challenging for conventional vision-based methods due to occlusions and constrained capture volumes. Inertial measurement units (IMUs) offer a compelling alternative without line-of-sight requirements, but existing IMU-based motion capture assumes an isolated human and ignores object contacts and dynamics. To bridge this gap, we present IMU-HOI, a novel framework that jointly recovers full-body human pose and 6-DoF object trajectory from sparse IMUs on the body and object, explicitly modeling human -object interaction. Our approach first infers probabilistic hand-object contacts directly from IMU streams and uses them as a high-level signal to route between kinematic and inertial reasoning. These contact cues drive a three-stage fusion pipeline that refines human pose and root translation, and fuses hand-based forward kinematics with object-IMU integration for object motion, yielding coherent, drift-resilient trajectories for both human and object. Experiments on challenging human -object interaction scenarios demonstrate substantial accuracy gains over prior inertial motion capture methods. Moreover, IMU-HOI can be plugged into existing sparse-IMU mocap backbones with minimal changes, effectively extending the scope of purely inertial motion capture from isolated humans to full human -object interaction and joint motion estimation. △ Less Submitted 26 June, 2026; originally announced June 2026. Comments: 10 pages, 5 figures. Accepted by CVPR 2026 Journal ref: Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), 2026, pp. 42901-42910

arXiv:2603.26403 [ pdf , ps , other ] cs.RO T-800: An 800 Hz Data Glove for Precise Hand Gesture Tracking Authors: Haoyang Luo , Zihang Zhao , Leiyao Cui , Saiyao Zhang , Liu Yang , Zhi Han , Xiyuan Tang , Yixin Zhu Abstract : Human dexterity relies on rapid, sub-second motor adjustments, yet capturing these high-frequency dynamics remains an enduring challenge in biomechanics and robotics. Existing motion capture paradigms are compromised by a trade-off between temporal resolution and visual occlusion, failing to record the fine-grained hand motion of fast,… ▽ More Human dexterity relies on rapid, sub-second motor adjustments, yet capturing these high-frequency dynamics remains an enduring challenge in biomechanics and robotics. Existing motion capture paradigms are compromised by a trade-off between temporal resolution and visual occlusion, failing to record the fine-grained hand motion of fast, contact -rich manipulation. Here we introduce T-800, a high-bandwidth data glove system that achieves synchronized, full-hand motion tracking at 800 Hz. By integrating a novel broadcast-based synchronization mechanism with a mechanical stress isolation architecture, our system maintains sub-frame temporal alignment across 18 distributed inertial measurement units (IMUs) during extended, vigorous movements. We demonstrate that T-800 recovers fine-grained manipulation details previously lost to temporal undersampling. Our analysis reveals that human dexterity exhibits significantly high-frequency motion energy (>100 Hz) that was fundamentally inaccessible due to the Nyquist sampling limit imposed by previous hardware constraints. To validate the system's utility for robotic manipulation, we implement a kinematic retargeting algorithm that maps T-800's high-fidelity human gestures onto dexterous robotic hand models. This demonstrates that the high-frequency motion data can be accurately translated while respecting the kinematic constraints of robotic hands, providing the rich behavioral data necessary for training robust control policies in the future. △ Less Submitted 27 March, 2026; originally announced March 2026.

arXiv:2602.11758 [ pdf , ps , other ] cs.RO HAIC: Humanoid Agile Object Interaction Control via Dynamics-Aware World Model Authors: Dongting Li , Xingyu Chen , Qianyang Wu , Bo Chen , Sikai Wu , Hanyu Wu , Guoyao Zhang , Liang Li , Mingliang Zhou , Diyun Xiang , Jianzhu Ma , Qiang Zhang , Renjing Xu Abstract : Humanoid robots show promise for complex whole-body tasks in unstructured environments. Although Human -Object Interaction (HOI) has advanced, most methods focus on fully actuated objects rigidly coupled to the robot, ignoring underactuated objects with independent dynamics and non-holonomic constraints. These introduce control challenges from coupling forces… ▽ More Humanoid robots show promise for complex whole-body tasks in unstructured environments. Although Human -Object Interaction (HOI) has advanced, most methods focus on fully actuated objects rigidly coupled to the robot, ignoring underactuated objects with independent dynamics and non-holonomic constraints. These introduce control challenges from coupling forces and occlusions. We present HAIC, a unified framework for robust interaction across diverse object dynamics without external state estimation. Our key contribution is a dynamics predictor that estimates high-order object states (velocity, acceleration) solely from proprioceptive history. These predictions are projected onto static geometric priors to form a spatially grounded dynamic occupancy map, enabling the policy to infer collision boundaries and contact affordances in blind spots. We use asymmetric fine-tuning, where a world model continuously adapts to the student policy's exploration, ensuring robust state estimation under distribution shifts. Experiments on a humanoid robot show HAIC achieves high success rates in agile tasks (skateboarding, cart pushing/pulling under various loads) by proactively compensating for inertial perturbations, and also masters multi-object long-horizon tasks like carrying a box across varied terrain by predicting the dynamics of multiple objects. △ Less Submitted 8 May, 2026; v1 submitted 12 February, 2026; originally announced February 2026. Comments: RSS 2026. Webpage: https://haic-humanoid.github.io/

arXiv:2602.07024 [ pdf , ps , other ] cs.RO cs.CV A Distributed Multi-Modal Sensing Approach for Human Activity Recognition in Real-Time Human -Robot Collaboration Authors: Valerio Belcamino , Nhat Minh Dinh Le , Quan Khanh Luu , Alessandro Carfì , Van Anh Ho , Fulvio Mastrogiovanni Abstract : Human activity recognition (HAR) is fundamental in… ▽ More Human activity recognition (HAR) is fundamental in human -robot collaboration (HRC), enabling robots to respond to and dynamically adapt to human intentions. This paper introduces a HAR system combining a modular data glove equipped with Inertial Measurement Units and a vision-based tactile sensor to capture hand activities in contact with a robot. We tested our activity recognition approach under different conditions, including offline classification of segmented sequences, real-time classification under static conditions, and a realistic HRC scenario. The experimental results show a high accuracy for all the tasks, suggesting that multiple collaborative settings could benefit from this multi-modal approach. △ Less Submitted 2 February, 2026; originally announced February 2026.

arXiv:2509.21242 [ pdf , ps , other ] cs.RO FSGlove: An Inertial -Based Hand Tracking System with Shape-Aware Calibration Authors: Yutong Li , Jieyi Zhang , Wenqiang Xu , Tutian Tang , Cewu Lu Abstract : …and personalized hand shape. Commercial gloves offer up to 21 DoFs, which are insufficient for complex manipulations while neglecting shape variations that are critical for contact -rich tasks. We present FSGlove, an… ▽ More Accurate hand motion capture (MoCap) is vital for applications in robotics, virtual reality, and biomechanics, yet existing systems face limitations in capturing high-degree-of-freedom (DoF) joint kinematics and personalized hand shape. Commercial gloves offer up to 21 DoFs, which are insufficient for complex manipulations while neglecting shape variations that are critical for contact -rich tasks. We present FSGlove, an inertial -based system that simultaneously tracks up to 48 DoFs and reconstructs personalized hand shapes via DiffHCal, a novel calibration method. Each finger joint and the dorsum are equipped with IMUs, enabling high-resolution motion sensing. DiffHCal integrates with the parametric MANO model through differentiable optimization, resolving joint kinematics, shape parameters, and sensor misalignment during a single streamlined calibration. The system achieves state-of-the-art accuracy, with joint angle errors of less than 2.7 degree, and outperforms commercial alternatives in shape reconstruction and contact fidelity. FSGlove's open-source hardware and software design ensures compatibility with current VR and robotics ecosystems, while its ability to capture subtle motions (e.g., fingertip rubbing) bridges the gap between human dexterity and robotic imitation. Evaluated against Nokov optical MoCap, FSGlove advances hand tracking by unifying the kinematic and contact fidelity. Hardware design, software, and more results are available at: https://sites.google.com/view/fsglove. △ Less Submitted 25 September, 2025; originally announced September 2025. Comments: Presented at IROS 2025, details are available at https://fsglove.robotflow.ai

arXiv:2509.16550 [ pdf , ps , other ] cs.RO cs.AI eess.SY TranTac: Leveraging Transient Tactile Signals for Contact -Rich Robotic Manipulation Authors: Yinghao Wu , Shuhong Hou , Haowen Zheng , Yichen Li , Weiyi Lu , Xun Zhou , Yitian Shao Abstract : …detect subtle changes or demand excessive sensor data. Here, we introduce TranTac, a data-efficient and low-cost tactile sensing and control framework that integrates a single contact -sensitive 6-axis… ▽ More Robotic manipulation tasks such as inserting a key into a lock or plugging a USB device into a port can fail when visual perception is insufficient to detect misalignment. In these situations, touch sensing is crucial for the robot to monitor the task's states and make precise, timely adjustments. Current touch sensing solutions are either insensitive to detect subtle changes or demand excessive sensor data. Here, we introduce TranTac, a data-efficient and low-cost tactile sensing and control framework that integrates a single contact -sensitive 6-axis inertial measurement unit within the elastomeric tips of a robotic gripper for completing fine insertion tasks. Our customized sensing system can detect dynamic translational and torsional deformations at the micrometer scale, enabling the tracking of visually imperceptible pose changes of the grasped object. By leveraging transformer-based encoders and diffusion policy, TranTac can imitate human insertion behaviors using transient tactile cues detected at the gripper's tip during insertion processes. These cues enable the robot to dynamically control and correct the 6-DoF pose of the grasped object. When combined with vision, TranTac achieves an average success rate of 79% on object grasping and insertion tasks, outperforming both vision-only policy and the one augmented with end-effector 6D force/torque sensing. Contact localization performance is also validated through tactile-only misaligned insertion tasks, achieving an average success rate of 88%. We assess the generalizability by training TranTac on a single prism-slot pair and testing it on unseen data, including a USB plug and a metal key, and find that the insertion tasks can still be completed with an average success rate of nearly 70%. The proposed framework may inspire new robotic tactile sensing systems for delicate manipulation tasks. △ Less Submitted 20 September, 2025; originally announced September 2025. Comments: 8 pages, 7 figures

arXiv:2505.08334 [ pdf , ps , other ] cs.RO eess.SY doi 10.1109/LRA.2025.3575326 Fast Contact Detection via Fusion of Joint and Inertial Sensors for Parallel Robots in Human -Robot Collaboration Authors: Aran Mohammad , Jan Piosik , Dustin Lehmann , Thomas Seel , Moritz Schappler Abstract : Fast contact detection is crucial for safe… ▽ More Fast contact detection is crucial for safe human -robot collaboration. Observers based on proprioceptive information can be used for contact detection but have first-order error dynamics, which results in delays. Sensor fusion based on inertial measurement units (IMUs) consisting of accelerometers and gyroscopes is advantageous for reducing delays. The acceleration estimation enables the direct calculation of external forces. For serial robots, the installation of multiple accelerometers and gyroscopes is required for dynamics modeling since the joint coordinates are the minimal coordinates. Alternatively, parallel robots (PRs) offer the potential to use only one IMU on the end-effector platform, which already presents the minimal coordinates of the PR. This work introduces a sensor-fusion method for contact detection using encoders and only one low-cost, consumer-grade IMU for a PR. The end-effector accelerations are estimated by an extended Kalman filter and incorporated into the dynamics to calculate external forces. In real-world experiments with a planar PR, we demonstrate that this approach reduces the detection duration by up to 50% compared to a momentum observer and enables the collision and clamping detection within 3-39ms. △ Less Submitted 17 June, 2025; v1 submitted 13 May, 2025; originally announced May 2025. Comments: Preprint of a publication accepted for IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters

arXiv:2505.05010 [ pdf , other ] cs.GR Improving Global Motion Estimation in Sparse IMU-based Motion Capture with Physics Authors: Xinyu Yi , Shaohua Pan , Feng Xu Abstract : By learning human motion priors, motion capture can be achieved by 6… ▽ More By learning human motion priors, motion capture can be achieved by 6 inertial measurement units (IMUs) in recent years with the development of deep learning techniques, even though the sensor inputs are sparse and noisy. However, human global motions are still challenging to be reconstructed by IMUs. This paper aims to solve this problem by involving physics. It proposes a physical optimization scheme based on multiple contacts to enable physically plausible translation estimation in the full 3D space where the z-directional motion is usually challenging for previous works. It also considers gravity in local pose estimation which well constrains human global orientations and refines local pose estimation in a joint estimation manner. Experiments demonstrate that our method achieves more accurate motion capture for both local poses and global motions. Furthermore, by deeply integrating physics, we can also estimate 3D contact , contact forces, joint torques, and interacting proxy surfaces. △ Less Submitted 8 May, 2025; originally announced May 2025. Comments: Accepted by SIGGRAPH 2025. Project Page:https://xinyu-yi.github.io/GlobalPose/

arXiv:2409.00343 [ pdf , other ] cs.CV EgoHDM: An Online Egocentric- Inertial Human Motion Capture, Localization, and Dense Mapping System Authors: Bonan Liu , Handi Yin , Manuel Kaufmann , Jinhao He , Sammy Christen , Jie Song , Pan Hui Abstract : We present EgoHDM, an online egocentric- inertial … ▽ More We present EgoHDM, an online egocentric- inertial human motion capture (mocap), localization, and dense mapping system. Our system uses 6 inertial measurement units (IMUs) and a commodity head-mounted RGB camera. EgoHDM is the first human mocap system that offers dense scene mapping in near real-time. Further, it is fast and robust to initialize and fully closes the loop between physically plausible map-aware global human motion estimation and mocap-aware 3D scene reconstruction. Our key idea is integrating camera localization and mapping information with inertial human motion capture bidirectionally in our system. To achieve this, we design a tightly coupled mocap-aware dense bundle adjustment and physics-based body pose correction module leveraging a local body-centric elevation map. The latter introduces a novel terrain-aware contact PD controller, which enables characters to physically contact the given local elevation map thereby reducing human floating or penetration. We demonstrate the performance of our system on established synthetic and real-world benchmarks. The results show that our method reduces human localization, camera pose, and mapping accuracy error by 41%, 71%, 46%, respectively, compared to the state of the art. Our qualitative evaluations on newly captured data further demonstrate that EgoHDM can cover challenging scenarios in non-flat terrain including stepping over stairs and outdoor scenes in the wild. △ Less Submitted 5 September, 2024; v1 submitted 31 August, 2024; originally announced September 2024. Comments: Project Page: https://handiyin.github.io/EgoHDM/

arXiv:2403.01068 [ pdf , other ] cs.RO Automated Continuous Force-Torque Sensor Bias Estimation Authors: Philippe Nadeau , Miguel Rogel Garcia , Emmett Wise , Jonathan Kelly Abstract : …attached to the wrist of serial robots to measure the external forces and torques acting on the robot's end-effector. These measurements are used for load identification, contact detection, and… ▽ More Six axis force-torque sensors are commonly attached to the wrist of serial robots to measure the external forces and torques acting on the robot's end-effector. These measurements are used for load identification, contact detection, and human -robot interaction amongst other applications. Typically, the measurements obtained from the force-torque sensor are more accurate than estimates computed from joint torque readings, as the former is independent of the robot's dynamic and kinematic models. However, the force-torque sensor measurements are affected by a bias that drifts over time, caused by the compounding effects of temperature changes, mechanical stresses, and other factors. In this work, we present a pipeline that continuously estimates the bias and the drift of the bias of a force-torque sensor attached to the wrist of a robot. The first component of the pipeline is a Kalman filter that estimates the kinematic state (position, velocity, and acceleration) of the robot's joints. The second component is a kinematic model that maps the joint-space kinematics to the task-space kinematics of the force-torque sensor. Finally, the third component is a Kalman filter that estimates the bias and the drift of the bias of the force-torque sensor assuming that the inertial parameters of the gripper attached to the distal end of the force-torque sensor are known with certainty. △ Less Submitted 1 March, 2024; originally announced March 2024. Comments: Technical Report STARS-2024-001, University of Toronto Institute for Aerospace Studies (7 pages, 0 figure) Report number: STARS-2024-001

arXiv:2401.13254 [ pdf , other ] cs.AR A modular architecture for IMU-based data gloves Authors: Alessandro Carfì , Mohamad Alameh , Valerio Belcamino , Fulvio Mastrogiovanni Abstract : The flexibility and range of motion in human hands play a crucial role in… ▽ More The flexibility and range of motion in human hands play a crucial role in human interaction with the environment and have been studied across different fields. Researchers explored various technological solutions for gathering information from the hands. These solutions include tracking hand motion through cameras or wearable sensors and using wearable sensors to measure the position and pressure of contact points. Data gloves can collect both types of information by utilizing inertial measurement units, flex sensors, magnetic trackers for motion tracking, and force resistors or touch sensors for contact measurement. Although there are commercially available data gloves, researchers often create custom data gloves to achieve the desired flexibility and control over the hardware. However, the existing literature lacks standardization and the reuse of previously designed data gloves. As a result, many gloves with unclear characteristics exist, which makes replication challenging and negatively impacts the reproducibility of studies. This work proposes a modular, open hardware and software architecture for creating customized data gloves based on IMU technology. We also provide an architecture implementation along with an experimental protocol to evaluate device performance. △ Less Submitted 24 January, 2024; originally announced January 2024. Comments: Mechatronics Topic Group workshop at European Robotics Forum 2024

arXiv:2312.07601 [ pdf , other ] eess.SP cs.LG Non- contact Multimodal Indoor Human Monitoring Systems: A Survey Authors: Le Ngu Nguyen , Praneeth Susarla , Anirban Mukherjee , Manuel Lage Cañellas , Constantino Álvarez Casado , Xiaoting Wu , Olli~Silvén , Dinesh Babu Jayagopi , Miguel Bordallo López Abstract : Indoor human monitoring systems leverage a wide range of sensors, including cameras, radio devices, and… ▽ More Indoor human monitoring systems leverage a wide range of sensors, including cameras, radio devices, and inertial measurement units, to collect extensive data from users and the environment. These sensors contribute diverse data modalities, such as video feeds from cameras, received signal strength indicators and channel state information from WiFi devices, and three-axis acceleration data from inertial measurement units. In this context, we present a comprehensive survey of multimodal approaches for indoor human monitoring systems, with a specific focus on their relevance in elderly care. Our survey primarily highlights non- contact technologies, particularly cameras and radio devices, as key components in the development of indoor human monitoring systems. Throughout this article, we explore well-established techniques for extracting features from multimodal data sources. Our exploration extends to methodologies for fusing these features and harnessing multiple modalities to improve the accuracy and robustness of machine learning models. Furthermore, we conduct comparative analysis across different data modalities in diverse human monitoring tasks and undertake a comprehensive examination of existing multimodal datasets. This extensive survey not only highlights the significance of indoor human monitoring systems but also affirms their versatile applications. In particular, we emphasize their critical role in enhancing the quality of elderly care, offering valuable insights into the development of non- contact monitoring solutions applicable to the needs of aging populations. △ Less Submitted 11 December, 2023; originally announced December 2023. Comments: 19 pages, 5 figures

arXiv:2309.03111 [ pdf , other ] cs.RO eess.SY math.OC Serving Time: Real-Time, Safe Motion Planning and Control for Manipulation of Unsecured Objects Authors: Zachary Brei , Jonathan Michaux , Bohao Zhang , Patrick Holmes , Ram Vasudevan Abstract : …of robotic systems from the industrial sector to more ubiquitous applications is the development of algorithms that can guarantee safe operation while in close proximity to humans . Motion planning and control methods, for instance, must be able to certify safety while operating in real-time in arbitrary environments and in the presence of model uncertainty.… ▽ More A key challenge to ensuring the rapid transition of robotic systems from the industrial sector to more ubiquitous applications is the development of algorithms that can guarantee safe operation while in close proximity to humans . Motion planning and control methods, for instance, must be able to certify safety while operating in real-time in arbitrary environments and in the presence of model uncertainty. This paper proposes Wrench Analysis for Inertial Transport using Reachability (WAITR), a certifiably safe motion planning and control framework for serial link manipulators that manipulate unsecured objects in arbitrary environments. WAITR uses reachability analysis to construct over-approximations of the contact wrench applied to unsecured objects, which captures uncertainty in the manipulator dynamics, the object dynamics, and contact parameters such as the coefficient of friction. An optimization problem formulation is presented that can be solved in real-time to generate provably-safe motions for manipulating the unsecured objects. This paper illustrates that WAITR outperforms state of the art methods in a variety of simulation experiments and demonstrates its performance in the real-world. △ Less Submitted 6 September, 2023; originally announced September 2023. Comments: 8 pages, 3 figures. For project page with code, videos, and supplementary appendices, see https://roahmlab.github.io/waitr-dev/. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:2301.13308

arXiv:2307.14125 [ pdf , other ] cs.RO Multi-IMU Proprioceptive State Estimator for Humanoid Robots Authors: Fabio Elnecave Xavier , Guillaume Burger , Marine Pétriaux , Jean-Emmanuel Deschaud , François Goulette Abstract : Algorithms for state estimation of humanoid robots usually assume that the feet remain flat and in a constant position while in contact with the ground. However, this hypothesis is easily violated while walking, especially for… ▽ More Algorithms for state estimation of humanoid robots usually assume that the feet remain flat and in a constant position while in contact with the ground. However, this hypothesis is easily violated while walking, especially for human -like gaits with heel-toe motion. This reduces the time during which the contact assumption can be used, or requires higher variances to account for errors. In this paper, we present a novel state estimator based on the extended Kalman filter that can properly handle any contact configuration. We consider multiple inertial measurement units (IMUs) distributed throughout the robot's structure, including on both feet, which are used to track multiple bodies of the robot. This multi-IMU instrumentation setup also has the advantage of allowing the deformations in the robot's structure to be estimated, improving the kinematic model used in the filter. The proposed approach is validated experimentally on the exoskeleton Atalante and is shown to present low drift, performing better than similar single-IMU filters. The obtained trajectory estimates are accurate enough to construct elevation maps that have little distortion with respect to the ground truth. △ Less Submitted 26 July, 2023; originally announced July 2023. Comments: Accepted to IROS 2023

arXiv:2302.14028 [ pdf , other ] eess.SP Modeling of Interface Loads for EOD Suit Wearers Authors: Yuan Gao , Stephanie Epstein , Murat Inalpolat , Yi-Ning Wu , Yan Gu Abstract : Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) suits are widely used to protect human operators to execute emergency tasks such as bomb disposal and neutralization. Current suit designs still need to be improved in terms of wearer comfort, which can be assessed based on the interaction forces at the… ▽ More Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) suits are widely used to protect human operators to execute emergency tasks such as bomb disposal and neutralization. Current suit designs still need to be improved in terms of wearer comfort, which can be assessed based on the interaction forces at the human -suit contact regions. This paper introduces a simulation-based modeling framework that computes the interaction loads at the human -suit interface based on a wearer's kinematic movement data. The proposed modeling framework consists of three primary components: a) inertial and geometric modeling of the EOD suit, b) state estimation of the wearer's in-suit movement, and c) inverse dynamics analysis to calculate the human -suit interface forces based on the simulated human -suit model and the estimated human movement data. This simulation-based modeling method could be used to complement experimental testing for improving the time and cost efficiency of EOD suit evaluation. The accuracy of the simulated interface load was experimentally benchmarked during three different human tasks (each with three trials), by comparing the predicted interface forces with that measured by commercial pressure sensors. △ Less Submitted 27 February, 2023; originally announced February 2023.

arXiv:2209.08790 [ pdf , other ] cs.CV cs.LG D&D: Learning Human Dynamics from Dynamic Camera Authors: Jiefeng Li , Siyuan Bian , Chao Xu , Gang Liu , Gang Yu , Cewu Lu Abstract : 3D human pose estimation from a monocular video has recently seen significant improvements. However, most state-of-the-art methods are kinematics-based, which are prone to physically implausible motions with pronounced artifacts. Current dynamics-based methods can predict physically plausible motion but are restricted to simple scenarios with static camera v… ▽ More 3D human pose estimation from a monocular video has recently seen significant improvements. However, most state-of-the-art methods are kinematics-based, which are prone to physically implausible motions with pronounced artifacts. Current dynamics-based methods can predict physically plausible motion but are restricted to simple scenarios with static camera view. In this work, we present D&D (Learning Human Dynamics from Dynamic Camera), which leverages the laws of physics to reconstruct 3D human motion from the in-the-wild videos with a moving camera. D&D introduces inertial force control (IFC) to explain the 3D human motion in the non- inertial local frame by considering the inertial forces of the dynamic camera. To learn the ground contact with limited annotations, we develop probabilistic contact torque (PCT), which is computed by differentiable sampling from contact probabilities and used to generate motions. The contact state can be weakly supervised by encouraging the model to generate correct motions. Furthermore, we propose an attentive PD controller that adjusts target pose states using temporal information to obtain smooth and accurate pose control. Our approach is entirely neural-based and runs without offline optimization or simulation in physics engines. Experiments on large-scale 3D human motion benchmarks demonstrate the effectiveness of D&D, where we exhibit superior performance against both state-of-the-art kinematics-based and dynamics-based methods. Code is available at https://github.com/Jeffsjtu/DnD △ Less Submitted 19 September, 2022; originally announced September 2022. Comments: ECCV 2022 (Oral)

arXiv:2205.07835 [ pdf , other ] cs.RO Whole-Body Human Kinematics Estimation using Dynamical Inverse Kinematics and Contact -Aided Lie Group Kalman Filter Authors: Prashanth Ramadoss , Lorenzo Rapetti , Yeshasvi Tirupachuri , Riccardo Grieco , Gianluca Milani , Enrico Valli , Stefano Dafarra , Silvio Traversaro , Daniele Pucci Abstract : Full-body motion estimation of a human through wearable sensing technologies is challenging in the absence of position sensors. This paper contributes to the development of a model-based whole-body kinematics estimation algorithm using wearable distributed… ▽ More Full-body motion estimation of a human through wearable sensing technologies is challenging in the absence of position sensors. This paper contributes to the development of a model-based whole-body kinematics estimation algorithm using wearable distributed inertial and force-torque sensing. This is done by extending the existing dynamical optimization-based Inverse Kinematics (IK) approach for joint state estimation, in cascade, to include a center of pressure-based contact detector and a contact -aided Kalman filter on Lie groups for floating base pose estimation. The proposed method is tested in an experimental scenario where a human equipped with a sensorized suit and shoes performs walking motions. The proposed method is demonstrated to obtain a reliable reconstruction of the whole-body human motion. △ Less Submitted 16 May, 2022; originally announced May 2022.

arXiv:2107.13405 [ pdf , other ] cs.LG cs.HC eess.SP doi 10.1109/ACCESS.2022.3197279 Unstructured Handwashing Recognition using Smartwatch to Reduce Contact Transmission of Pathogens Authors: Emanuele Lattanzi , Lorenzo Calisti , Valerio Freschi Abstract : …Health Organization indicate that the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, which results in the novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19), is transmitted through respiratory droplets or by contact .… ▽ More Current guidelines from the World Health Organization indicate that the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, which results in the novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19), is transmitted through respiratory droplets or by contact . Contact transmission occurs when contaminated hands touch the mucous membrane of the mouth, nose, or eyes so hands hygiene is extremely important to prevent the spread of the SARSCoV-2 as well as of other pathogens. The vast proliferation of wearable devices, such as smartwatches, containing acceleration, rotation, magnetic field sensors, etc., together with the modern technologies of artificial intelligence, such as machine learning and more recently deep-learning, allow the development of accurate applications for recognition and classification of human activities such as: walking, climbing stairs, running, clapping, sitting, sleeping, etc. In this work, we evaluate the feasibility of a machine learning based system which, starting from inertial signals collected from wearable devices such as current smartwatches, recognizes when a subject is washing or rubbing its hands. Preliminary results, obtained over two different datasets, show a classification accuracy of about 95% and of about 94% for respectively deep and standard learning techniques. △ Less Submitted 6 June, 2022; v1 submitted 28 July, 2021; originally announced July 2021. Journal ref: IEEE Access, vol. 10, pp. 83111-83124, 2022

arXiv:2102.10283 [ pdf , other ] cs.RO eess.SY Imitation Learning for Variable Speed Contact Motion for Operation up to Control Bandwidth Authors: Sho Sakaino , Kazuki Fujimoto , Yuki Saigusa , Toshiaki Tsuji Abstract : …the main issue has been improvements of the adaptability to spatially varying environments, but a variation of the operating speed has not been investigated in detail. In contact -rich tasks, it is especially important to be able to adjust the operating speed because a nonlinear relationship occurs between the operating speed and force (e.g.,… ▽ More The generation of robot motions in the real world is difficult by using conventional controllers alone and requires highly intelligent processing. In this regard, learning-based motion generations are currently being investigated. However, the main issue has been improvements of the adaptability to spatially varying environments, but a variation of the operating speed has not been investigated in detail. In contact -rich tasks, it is especially important to be able to adjust the operating speed because a nonlinear relationship occurs between the operating speed and force (e.g., inertial and frictional forces), and it affects the results of the tasks. Therefore, in this study, we propose a method for generating variable operating speeds while adapting to spatial perturbations in the environment. The proposed method can be adapted to nonlinearities by utilizing a small amount of motion data. We experimentally evaluated the proposed method by erasing a line using an eraser fixed to the tip of the robot as an example of a contact -rich task. Furthermore, the proposed method enables a robot to perform a task faster than a human operator and is capable of operating close to the control bandwidth. △ Less Submitted 12 February, 2022; v1 submitted 20 February, 2021; originally announced February 2021. Comments: Copyright 2022 IEEE. Personal use of this material is permitted. Permission from IEEE must be obtained for all other uses, in any current or future media, including reprinting/republishing this material for advertising or promotional purposes, creating new collective works, for resale or redistribution to servers or lists, or reuse of any copyrighted component of this work in other works

arXiv:2007.02433 cs.CV cs.LG Estimation of Ground Contacts from Human Gait by a Wearable Inertial Measurement Unit using machine learning Authors: Muhammad Junaid Umer , Qaiser Riaz Abstract : Robotics system for rehabilitation of movement disorders and motion assistance are gaining increased intention. In this scenario estimation of ground contact is an active area of research in robotics and healthcare. This article addresses the estimation and classification of right and left foot during the healthy… ▽ More Robotics system for rehabilitation of movement disorders and motion assistance are gaining increased intention. In this scenario estimation of ground contact is an active area of research in robotics and healthcare. This article addresses the estimation and classification of right and left foot during the healthy human gait based on the IMU sensor data of chest and lower back. For this purpose we have collected an IMU data of 48 subjects by using two smartphones at chest and lower back of the human body and one smart watch at right ankle of the body. To show the robustness of our approach data was collected at six different surfaces (road tiles carpet grass concrete and soil). The recorded data of lower back and chest sensor was segmented into single steps on the basis of right ankle sensor data, then we computed a total of 408 features from time frequency and wavelet domain of each segmented step. For classification task we have trained two machine learning classifiers SVM and RF with 10 fold cross validation method. We performed classification experiments at individual surfaces, hard surfaces, soft surfaces and all surfaces, highest accuracy was achieved at individual surfaces with accuracy index of 98.88%. Furthermore, classification rate at hard soft and all surface are 95.60%, 94.38% and 95.05% respectively. The results shows that estimation of ground contact form normal human walk at different surfaces can be performed with high accuracy using 6D data of angular velocities and accelerations from chest and lower back location of the body. △ Less Submitted 8 July, 2020; v1 submitted 5 July, 2020; originally announced July 2020. Comments: Not completely discussed with supervisor need some improvements in article to prepare a final draft