URL: https://arxiv.org/search/?query=inertial+calibration+motion+sparse&searchtype=all&abstracts=show&order=-announced_date_first&size=50

arXiv:2607.10925 [ pdf , ps , other ] cs.RO Mapping Pamir: Multi-Session Visual- Inertial SLAM and 3D Reconstruction of an Underwater Shipwreck Authors: Michalis Chatzispyrou , Luke Horgan , Hyunkil Hwang , Harish Sathishchandra , Chinmay Burgul , Monika Roznere , Alberto Quattrini Li , Philippos Mordohai , Ioannis Rekleitis Abstract : This paper presents a framework for multi-session mapping of underwater environments utilizing an affordable action camera. The Visual- Inertial data are augmented by water depth recordings from a dive computer. SVIn2, an open-source VI-SLAM framework, is utilized to generate a trajectory and a… ▽ More This paper presents a framework for multi-session mapping of underwater environments utilizing an affordable action camera. The Visual- Inertial data are augmented by water depth recordings from a dive computer. SVIn2, an open-source VI-SLAM framework, is utilized to generate a trajectory and a sparse reconstruction for each session. Utilizing the keyframes extracted from SVIn2 and the estimated camera poses, a Structure-from- Motion (SfM) framework, COLMAP, is employed for global optimization and to produce a dense reconstruction of the target environment. The presence of calibration targets at fixed locations, when available, is used to estimate the coordinate transformation between different data collection sessions, thus transforming the different sessions into the same coordinate frame. The proposed pipeline is employed for the mapping of a shipwreck off the coast of Barbados. For the first time, both the exterior and the accessible interior parts of the wreck were mapped in two sessions, while a third session employed two cameras with different fields of view. △ Less Submitted 12 July, 2026; originally announced July 2026. Comments: 8 pages, 12 figures. Accepted to ICRA 2026, Vienna, Austria

arXiv:2605.05014 [ pdf , ps , other ] cs.CV CARD: A Multi-Modal Automotive Dataset for Dense 3D Reconstruction in Challenging Road Topography Authors: Gasser Elazab , Frank Neuhaus , Tilman Koß , Malte Splietker , Aditya Date , Michael Unterreiner , Maximilian Jansen , Olaf Hellwich Abstract : …across diverse surfaces to enable safe mobility. However, most driving datasets are captured on well-paved flat roads. Moreover, recent driving datasets primarily provide sparse LiDAR ground truth for images, which is insufficient for assessing fine-grained geometry in depth estimation and completion. To address these gaps, we introduce CARD, a multi-modal d… ▽ More Autonomous driving must operate across diverse surfaces to enable safe mobility. However, most driving datasets are captured on well-paved flat roads. Moreover, recent driving datasets primarily provide sparse LiDAR ground truth for images, which is insufficient for assessing fine-grained geometry in depth estimation and completion. To address these gaps, we introduce CARD, a multi-modal driving dataset that delivers quasi-dense 3D ground truth across continuous sequences rich in speed bumps, potholes, irregular surfaces and off-road segments. Our sensor suite includes synchronized global-shutter stereo cameras, front and rear LiDARs, 6-DoF poses from LiDAR- inertial odometry, per-wheel motion traces, and full calibration . Notably, our multi-LiDAR fusion yields ~500K valid depth pixels per frame, about 6.5x more than KITTI Depth Completion and 10x more on average than other public driving datasets. The dataset spans ~110 km and 4.7 hours across Germany and Italy. In addition, CARD provides 2D bounding boxes targeting road-topography irregularities, enabling accurate benchmarking for both geometry and perception tasks. Furthermore, we establish a standardized evaluation protocol for road surface irregularities on CARD and benchmark state-of-the-art depth estimation models to provide strong baselines. The CARD dataset is hosted on https://huggingface.co/CARD-Data. △ Less Submitted 7 May, 2026; v1 submitted 6 May, 2026; originally announced May 2026. Comments: Accepted at CVPR 2026 (Highlight). Project page: https://card.content.cariad.digital

arXiv:2603.02130 [ pdf , ps , other ] cs.CV Stereo- Inertial Poser: Towards Metric-Accurate Shape-Aware Motion Capture Using Sparse IMUs and a Single Stereo Camera Authors: Tutian Tang , Xingyu Ji , Yutong Li , MingHao Liu , Wenqiang Xu , Cewu Lu Abstract : Recent advancements in visual- inertial … ▽ More Recent advancements in visual- inertial motion capture systems have demonstrated the potential of combining monocular cameras with sparse inertial measurement units (IMUs) as cost-effective solutions, which effectively mitigate occlusion and drift issues inherent in single-modality systems. However, they are still limited by metric inaccuracies in global translations stemming from monocular depth ambiguity, and shape-agnostic local motion estimations that ignore anthropometric variations. We present Stereo- Inertial Poser, a real-time motion capture system that leverages a single stereo camera and six IMUs to estimate metric-accurate and shape-aware 3D human motion . By replacing the monocular RGB with stereo vision, our system resolves depth ambiguity through calibrated baseline geometry, enabling direct 3D keypoint extraction and body shape parameter estimation. IMU data and visual cues are fused for predicting drift-compensated joint positions and root movements, while a novel shape-aware fusion module dynamically harmonizes anthropometry variations with global translations. Our end-to-end pipeline achieves over 200 FPS without optimization-based post-processing, enabling real-time deployment. Quantitative evaluations across various datasets demonstrate state-of-the-art performance. Qualitative results show our method produces drift-free global translation under a long recording time and reduces foot-skating effects. △ Less Submitted 2 March, 2026; originally announced March 2026. Comments: The code, data, and supplementary materials are available at \url{https://sites.google.com/view/stereo- inertial -poser}. Accepted to ICRA 2026

arXiv:2602.22006 [ pdf , ps , other ] cs.RO Parallel Reference-Centric Continuous-Time Relative Localization with Augmented Clamped Non-Uniform B-Splines Authors: Jiadong Lu , Zhehan Li , Tao Han , Miao Xu , Jiajun Lv , Chao Xu , Yanjun Cao Abstract : …asynchronously and with clock time-offsets. Although Continuous-Time (CT) formulations have proved effective for handling asynchronous measurements in single-robot SLAM and calibration , extending CT methods to multi-robot settings faces great challenges in achieving high-accuracy, low-latency, and high-frequency performance. In particular, existing CT method… ▽ More Accurate relative localization is critical for multi-robot cooperation. In robot groups, measurements from different robots arrive asynchronously and with clock time-offsets. Although Continuous-Time (CT) formulations have proved effective for handling asynchronous measurements in single-robot SLAM and calibration , extending CT methods to multi-robot settings faces great challenges in achieving high-accuracy, low-latency, and high-frequency performance. In particular, existing CT methods suffer from the inherent query-time delay of unclamped B-splines and high optimization latency. This paper proposes CT-RIO, a novel Continuous-Time Relative- Inertial Odometry framework. We adopt Clamped Non-Uniform B-splines (C-NUBS) to represent states, eliminating the query-time delay. We further augment C-NUBS with closed-form extension and shrinkage operations that preserve the spline shape, making it suitable for online estimation and enabling flexible knot management. This flexibility leads to the concept of a knot-keyknot strategy, which supports spline extension at high frequency while retaining sparse keyknots for adaptive relative motion modeling. We then formulate a reference-centric sliding-window relative localization problem that operates purely on relative kinematics and inter-robot constraints. To enable low-latency and high-frequency estimation, we decompose the tightly coupled optimization into robot-wise subproblems and solve them in parallel using asynchronous block coordinate descent. Extensive experiments show that CT-RIO converges from time-offsets as large as 264 ms to sub-millisecond within 3 s, and achieves RMSEs of 0.046 m and 1.8 degree. It consistently outperforms evaluated published methods, with improvements of up to 60% under high-speed motion . △ Less Submitted 2 September, 2026; v1 submitted 25 February, 2026; originally announced February 2026. Comments: 21 pages, 23 figures, submitted to IEEE Transactions on Robotics

arXiv:2506.10580 [ pdf , ps , other ] cs.GR cs.CV Transformer IMU Calibrator : Dynamic On-body IMU Calibration for Inertial Motion Capture Authors: Chengxu Zuo , Jiawei Huang , Xiao Jiang , Yuan Yao , Xiangren Shi , Rui Cao , Xinyu Yi , Feng Xu , Shihui Guo , Yipeng Qin Abstract : In this paper, we propose a novel dynamic calibration method for… ▽ More In this paper, we propose a novel dynamic calibration method for sparse inertial motion capture systems, which is the first to break the restrictive absolute static assumption in IMU calibration , i.e., the coordinate drift RG'G and measurement offset RBS remain constant during the entire motion , thereby significantly expanding their application scenarios. Specifically, we achieve real-time estimation of RG'G and RBS under two relaxed assumptions: i) the matrices change negligibly in a short time window; ii) the human movements/IMU readings are diverse in such a time window. Intuitively, the first assumption reduces the number of candidate matrices, and the second assumption provides diverse constraints, which greatly reduces the solution space and allows for accurate estimation of RG'G and RBS from a short history of IMU readings in real time. To achieve this, we created synthetic datasets of paired RG'G, RBS matrices and IMU readings, and learned their mappings using a Transformer-based model. We also designed a calibration trigger based on the diversity of IMU readings to ensure that assumption ii) is met before applying our method. To our knowledge, we are the first to achieve implicit IMU calibration (i.e., seamlessly putting IMUs into use without the need for an explicit calibration process), as well as the first to enable long-term and accurate motion capture using sparse IMUs. The code and dataset are available at https://github.com/ZuoCX1996/TIC. △ Less Submitted 12 June, 2025; originally announced June 2025. Comments: Accepted by SIGGRAPH 2025 (TOG)

arXiv:1909.04102 [ pdf , other ] cs.RO LIC-Fusion: LiDAR- Inertial -Camera Odometry Authors: Xingxing Zuo , Patrick Geneva , Woosik Lee , Yong Liu , Guoquan Huang Abstract : This paper presents a tightly-coupled multi-sensor fusion algorithm termed LiDAR- inertial -camera fusion (LIC-Fusion), which efficiently fuses IMU measurements,… ▽ More This paper presents a tightly-coupled multi-sensor fusion algorithm termed LiDAR- inertial -camera fusion (LIC-Fusion), which efficiently fuses IMU measurements, sparse visual features, and extracted LiDAR points. In particular, the proposed LIC-Fusion performs online spatial and temporal sensor calibration between all three asynchronous sensors, in order to compensate for possible calibration variations. The key contribution is the optimal (up to linearization errors) multi-modal sensor fusion of detected and tracked sparse edge/surf feature points from LiDAR scans within an efficient MSCKF-based framework, alongside sparse visual feature observations and IMU readings. We perform extensive experiments in both indoor and outdoor environments, showing that the proposed LIC-Fusion outperforms the state-of-the-art visual- inertial odometry (VIO) and LiDAR odometry methods in terms of estimation accuracy and robustness to aggressive motions . △ Less Submitted 1 November, 2019; v1 submitted 9 September, 2019; originally announced September 2019. Comments: Accepted by conference