URL: https://arxiv.org/search/?query=inertial+pose+time+synchronization&searchtype=all&abstracts=show&order=-announced_date_first&size=50

arXiv:2604.12942 [ pdf , ps , other ] cs.RO RMGS-SLAM: Real- time Multi-sensor Gaussian Splatting SLAM Authors: Dongen Li , Yi Liu , Junqi Liu , Zewen Sun , Zefan Huang , Shuo Sun , Jiahui Liu , Chengran Yuan , Hongliang Guo , Francis E. H. Tay , Marcelo H. Ang Jr Abstract : Achieving real- time Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) based on 3D Gaussian splatting (3DGS) in large-scale real-world environments remains challenging, as existing methods still struggle to jointly achieve low-latency… ▽ More Achieving real- time Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) based on 3D Gaussian splatting (3DGS) in large-scale real-world environments remains challenging, as existing methods still struggle to jointly achieve low-latency pose estimation, continuous 3D Gaussian reconstruction, and long-term global consistency. In this paper, we present a tightly coupled LiDAR- Inertial -Visual 3DGS-based SLAM framework for real- time pose estimation and photorealistic mapping in large-scale real-world scenes. The system executes state estimation and 3D Gaussian primitive initialization in parallel with global Gaussian optimization, enabling continuous dense mapping. To improve Gaussian initialization quality and accelerate optimization convergence, we introduce a cascaded strategy that combines feed-forward predictions with geometric priors derived from voxel-based principal component analysis. To enhance global consistency, we perform loop closure directly on the optimized global Gaussian map by estimating loop constraints through Gaussian-based Generalized Iterative Closest Point registration, followed by pose -graph optimization. We also collect challenging large-scale looped outdoor sequences with hardware- synchronized LiDAR-camera-IMU and ground-truth trajectories for realistic evaluation. Extensive experiments on both public datasets and our dataset demonstrate that the proposed method achieves a state of the art among real- time efficiency, localization accuracy, and rendering quality across diverse real-world scenes. △ Less Submitted 21 April, 2026; v1 submitted 14 April, 2026; originally announced April 2026. Comments: The manuscript has been improved, with refined content and updated and corrected experimental results

arXiv:2512.07221 [ pdf , ps , other ] cs.RO Spatiotemporal Calibration and Ground Truth Estimation for High-Precision SLAM Benchmarking in Extended Reality Authors: Zichao Shu , Shitao Bei , Lijun Li , Zetao Chen Abstract : …benchmarking, particularly for key metrics like rotation error and inter-frame jitter, which are critical for immersive XR experiences. This paper presents a novel continuous- time maximum likelihood estimator to address these challenges. The proposed method integrates auxiliary… ▽ More Simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) plays a fundamental role in extended reality (XR) applications. As the standards for immersion in XR continue to increase, the demands for SLAM benchmarking have become more stringent. Trajectory accuracy is the key metric, and marker-based optical motion capture (MoCap) systems are widely used to generate ground truth (GT) because of their drift-free and relatively accurate measurements. However, the precision of MoCap-based GT is limited by two factors: the spatiotemporal calibration with the device under test (DUT) and the inherent jitter in the MoCap measurements. These limitations hinder accurate SLAM benchmarking, particularly for key metrics like rotation error and inter-frame jitter, which are critical for immersive XR experiences. This paper presents a novel continuous- time maximum likelihood estimator to address these challenges. The proposed method integrates auxiliary inertial measurement unit (IMU) data to compensate for MoCap jitter. Additionally, a variable time synchronization method and a pose residual based on screw congruence constraints are proposed, enabling precise spatiotemporal calibration across multiple sensors and the DUT. Experimental results demonstrate that our approach outperforms existing methods, achieving the precision necessary for comprehensive benchmarking of state-of-the-art SLAM algorithms in XR applications. Furthermore, we thoroughly validate the practicality of our method by benchmarking several leading XR devices and open-source SLAM algorithms. The code is publicly available at https://github.com/ylab-xrpg/xr-hpgt. △ Less Submitted 8 December, 2025; originally announced December 2025.

arXiv:2509.22288 [ pdf , ps , other ] cs.RO IMU-Preintegrated Radar Factors for Asynchronous Radar-LiDAR- Inertial SLAM Authors: Johan Hatleskog , Morten Nissov , Kostas Alexis Abstract : Fixed-lag Radar-LiDAR- Inertial smoothers conventionally create one factor graph node per measurement to compensate for the lack of… ▽ More Fixed-lag Radar-LiDAR- Inertial smoothers conventionally create one factor graph node per measurement to compensate for the lack of time synchronization between radar and LiDAR. For a radar-LiDAR sensor pair with equal rates, this strategy results in a state creation rate of twice the individual sensor frequencies. This doubling of the number of states per second yields high optimization costs, inhibiting real- time performance on resource-constrained hardware. We introduce IMU-preintegrated radar factors that use high-rate inertial data to propagate the most recent LiDAR state to the radar measurement timestamp. This strategy maintains the node creation rate at the LiDAR measurement frequency. Assuming equal sensor rates, this lowers the number of nodes by 50 % and consequently the computational costs. Experiments on a single board computer (which has 4 cores each of 2.2 GHz A73 and 2 GHz A53 with 8 GB RAM) show that our method preserves the absolute pose error of a conventional baseline while simultaneously lowering the aggregated factor graph optimization time by up to 56 %. △ Less Submitted 26 September, 2025; originally announced September 2025. Comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, accepted by The 22nd International Conference on Advanced Robotics (ICAR 2025). Supplementary video: https://youtu.be/95jeWXBMN7c

arXiv:2304.03837 [ pdf , other ] cs.RO eess.SP doi 10.1109/TRO.2024.3370027 Multi-Robot Relative Pose Estimation and IMU Preintegration Using Passive UWB Transceivers Authors: Mohammed Ayman Shalaby , Charles Champagne Cossette , Jerome Le Ny , James Richard Forbes Abstract : …increasingly popular as a means of inter-robot ranging and communication. A major constraint associated with UWB is that only one pair of UWB transceivers can range at a time to avoid interference, hence hindering the scalability of UWB-based localization. In this paper, a ranging protocol is proposed that allows all robots to passively listen on neighbourin… ▽ More Ultra-wideband (UWB) systems are becoming increasingly popular as a means of inter-robot ranging and communication. A major constraint associated with UWB is that only one pair of UWB transceivers can range at a time to avoid interference, hence hindering the scalability of UWB-based localization. In this paper, a ranging protocol is proposed that allows all robots to passively listen on neighbouring communicating robots without any hierarchical restrictions on the role of the robots. This is utilized to allow each robot to obtain more range measurements and to broadcast preintegrated inertial measurement unit (IMU) measurements for relative extended pose state estimation directly on SE2(3). Consequently, a simultaneous clock- synchronization and relative- pose estimator (CSRPE) is formulated using an on-manifold extended Kalman filter (EKF) and is evaluated in simulation using Monte-Carlo runs for up to 7 robots. The ranging protocol is implemented in C on custom-made UWB boards fitted to 3 quadcopters, and the proposed filter is evaluated over multiple experimental trials, yielding up to 48% improvement in localization accuracy. △ Less Submitted 2 October, 2024; v1 submitted 7 April, 2023; originally announced April 2023. Journal ref: in IEEE Transactions on Robotics, vol. 40, pp. 2410-2429, 2024

arXiv:2302.12198 [ pdf , other ] cs.RO doi 10.1109/RCAR54675.2022.9872176 CP+: Camera Poses Augmentation with Large-scale LiDAR Maps Authors: Jiadi Cui , Sören Schwertfeger Abstract : …the information from these two kinds of sensors is not well fused in many existing frameworks, resulting in poor colorization results, thus resulting in inaccurate camera poses and damaged point colorization results. We propose a novel framework called Camera… ▽ More Large-scale colored point clouds have many advantages in navigation or scene display. Relying on cameras and LiDARs, which are now widely used in reconstruction tasks, it is possible to obtain such colored point clouds. However, the information from these two kinds of sensors is not well fused in many existing frameworks, resulting in poor colorization results, thus resulting in inaccurate camera poses and damaged point colorization results. We propose a novel framework called Camera Pose Augmentation (CP+) to improve the camera poses and align them directly with the LiDAR-based point cloud. Initial coarse camera poses are given by LiDAR- Inertial or LiDAR- Inertial -Visual Odometry with approximate extrinsic parameters and time synchronization . The key steps to improve the alignment of the images consist of selecting a point cloud corresponding to a region of interest in each camera view, extracting reliable edge features from this point cloud, and deriving 2D-3D line correspondences which are used towards iterative minimization of the re-projection error. △ Less Submitted 27 February, 2023; v1 submitted 23 February, 2023; originally announced February 2023.

arXiv:2210.01154 [ pdf , other ] cs.RO doi 10.1109/IV55152.2023.10186548 M-LIO: Multi-lidar, multi-IMU odometry with sensor dropout tolerance Authors: Sandipan Das , Navid Mahabadi , Maurice Fallon , Saikat Chatterjee Abstract : We present a robust system for state estimation that fuses measurements from multiple lidars and inertial sensors with GNSS data. To initiate the method, we use the prior GNSS… ▽ More We present a robust system for state estimation that fuses measurements from multiple lidars and inertial sensors with GNSS data. To initiate the method, we use the prior GNSS pose information. We then perform incremental motion in real- time , which produces robust motion estimates in a global frame by fusing lidar and IMU signals with GNSS translation components using a factor graph framework. We also propose methods to account for signal loss with a novel synchronization and fusion mechanism. To validate our approach extensive tests were carried out on data collected using Scania test vehicles (5 sequences for a total of ~ 7 Km). From our evaluations, we show an average improvement of 61% in relative translation and 42% rotational error compared to a state-of-the-art estimator fusing a single lidar/ inertial sensor pair. △ Less Submitted 9 October, 2022; v1 submitted 3 October, 2022; originally announced October 2022. Comments: For associated video check https://youtu.be/-xSbfaroEPs Journal ref: 2023 IEEE Intelligent Vehicles Symposium (IV), Anchorage, AK, USA, 2023

arXiv:2208.09825 [ pdf , other ] cs.RO eess.IV doi 10.1109/LRA.2022.3226077 Hilti-Oxford Dataset: A Millimetre-Accurate Benchmark for Simultaneous Localization and Mapping Authors: Lintong Zhang , Michael Helmberger , Lanke Frank Tarimo Fu , David Wisth , Marco Camurri , Davide Scaramuzza , Maurice Fallon Abstract : …building with fine details and curved surfaces. To encourage multi-modal SLAM approaches, we designed a data collection platform featuring a lidar, five cameras, and an IMU ( Inertial Measurement Unit). With the goal of benchmarking SLAM algorithms for tasks where accuracy and robustness are paramount, we implemented a novel ground truth collection method tha… ▽ More Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) is being deployed in real-world applications, however many state-of-the-art solutions still struggle in many common scenarios. A key necessity in progressing SLAM research is the availability of high-quality datasets and fair and transparent benchmarking. To this end, we have created the Hilti-Oxford Dataset, to push state-of-the-art SLAM systems to their limits. The dataset has a variety of challenges ranging from sparse and regular construction sites to a 17th century neoclassical building with fine details and curved surfaces. To encourage multi-modal SLAM approaches, we designed a data collection platform featuring a lidar, five cameras, and an IMU ( Inertial Measurement Unit). With the goal of benchmarking SLAM algorithms for tasks where accuracy and robustness are paramount, we implemented a novel ground truth collection method that enables our dataset to accurately measure SLAM pose errors with millimeter accuracy. To further ensure accuracy, the extrinsics of our platform were verified with a micrometer-accurate scanner, and temporal calibration was managed online using hardware time synchronization . The multi-modality and diversity of our dataset attracted a large field of academic and industrial researchers to enter the second edition of the Hilti SLAM challenge, which concluded in June 2022. The results of the challenge show that while the top three teams could achieve an accuracy of 2cm or better for some sequences, the performance dropped off in more difficult sequences. △ Less Submitted 15 May, 2023; v1 submitted 21 August, 2022; originally announced August 2022. Comments: Presented at IEEE Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2023 Journal ref: IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters ( Volume: 8, Issue: 1, January 2023)

arXiv:2110.05650 [ pdf ] cs.RO doi 10.1109/JSEN.2022.3142041 GM-Livox: An Integrated Framework for Large-Scale Map Construction with Multiple Non-repetitive Scanning LiDARs Authors: Yusheng Wang , Yidong Lou , Weiwei Song , Huan Yu , Zhiyong Tu Abstract : …performance degradation intermittently, we present a multi-LiDAR integration scheme in this article. Our framework tightly couples multiple non-repetitive scanning LiDARs with inertial , encoder, and global navigation satellite system (GNSS) into… ▽ More With the ability of providing direct and accurate enough range measurements, light detection and ranging (LiDAR) is playing an essential role in localization and detection for autonomous vehicles. Since single LiDAR suffers from hardware failure and performance degradation intermittently, we present a multi-LiDAR integration scheme in this article. Our framework tightly couples multiple non-repetitive scanning LiDARs with inertial , encoder, and global navigation satellite system (GNSS) into pose estimation and simultaneous global map generation. Primarily, we formulate a precise synchronization strategy to integrate isolated sensors, and the extracted feature points from separate LiDARs are merged into a single sweep. The fused scans are introduced to compute the scan-matching correspondences, which can be further refined by additional real- time kinematic (RTK) measurements. Based thereupon, we construct a factor graph along with the inertial preintegration result, estimated ground constraints, and RTK data. For the purpose of maintaining a restricted number of poses for estimation, we deploy a keyframe based sliding-window optimization strategy in our system. The real- time performance is guaranteed with multi-threaded computation, and extensive experiments are conducted in challenging scenarios. Experimental results show that the utilization of multiple LiDARs boosts the system performance in both robustness and accuracy. △ Less Submitted 11 October, 2021; originally announced October 2021.

arXiv:2109.09035 [ pdf , other ] cs.RO Continuous- Time Spline Visual- Inertial Odometry Authors: Jiawei Mo , Junaed Sattar Abstract : We propose a continuous- time spline-based formulation for visual-… ▽ More We propose a continuous- time spline-based formulation for visual- inertial odometry (VIO). Specifically, we model the poses as a cubic spline, whose temporal derivatives are used to synthesize linear acceleration and angular velocity, which are compared to the measurements from the inertial measurement unit (IMU) for optimal state estimation. The spline boundary conditions create constraints between the camera and the IMU, with which we formulate VIO as a constrained nonlinear optimization problem. Continuous- time pose representation makes it possible to address many VIO challenges, e.g., rolling shutter distortion and sensors that may lack synchronization . We conduct experiments on two publicly available datasets that demonstrate the state-of-the-art accuracy and real- time computational efficiency of our method. △ Less Submitted 18 February, 2022; v1 submitted 18 September, 2021; originally announced September 2021. Comments: ICRA 2022

arXiv:2109.05975 [ pdf , other ] cs.RO cs.CV doi 10.1109/LRA.2021.3137910 Balancing the Budget: Feature Selection and Tracking for Multi-Camera Visual- Inertial Odometry Authors: Lintong Zhang , David Wisth , Marco Camurri , Maurice Fallon Abstract : We present a multi-camera visual- inertial odometry system based on factor graph optimization which estimates motion by using all cameras simultaneously while retaining a fixed overall feature budget. We focus on motion tracking in challenging environments, such as narrow corridors, dark spaces with aggressive motions, and abrupt lighting changes. These scena… ▽ More We present a multi-camera visual- inertial odometry system based on factor graph optimization which estimates motion by using all cameras simultaneously while retaining a fixed overall feature budget. We focus on motion tracking in challenging environments, such as narrow corridors, dark spaces with aggressive motions, and abrupt lighting changes. These scenarios cause traditional monocular or stereo odometry to fail. While tracking motion with extra cameras should theoretically prevent failures, it leads to additional complexity and computational burden. To overcome these challenges, we introduce two novel methods to improve multi-camera feature tracking. First, instead of tracking features separately in each camera, we track features continuously as they move from one camera to another. This increases accuracy and achieves a more compact factor graph representation. Second, we select a fixed budget of tracked features across the cameras to reduce back-end optimization time . We have found that using a smaller set of informative features can maintain the same tracking accuracy. Our proposed method was extensively tested using a hardware- synchronized device consisting of an IMU and four cameras (a front stereo pair and two lateral) in scenarios including: an underground mine, large open spaces, and building interiors with narrow stairs and corridors. Compared to stereo-only state-of-the-art visual- inertial odometry methods, our approach reduces the drift rate, relative pose error, by up to 80% in translation and 39% in rotation. △ Less Submitted 12 May, 2022; v1 submitted 13 September, 2021; originally announced September 2021. Comments: Video at https://youtu.be/cLWeAT72e0U Journal ref: IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters ( Volume: 7, Issue: 2, April 2022)

arXiv:1912.02469 [ pdf , other ] cs.RO doi 10.3390/s20051439 VersaVIS: An Open Versatile Multi-Camera Visual- Inertial Sensor Suite Authors: Florian Tschopp , Michael Riner , Marius Fehr , Lukas Bernreiter , Fadri Furrer , Tonci Novkovic , Andreas Pfrunder , Cesar Cadena , Roland Siegwart , Juan Nieto Abstract : Robust and accurate pose estimation is crucial for many applications in mobile robotics. Extending visual Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) with other modalities such as an… ▽ More Robust and accurate pose estimation is crucial for many applications in mobile robotics. Extending visual Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) with other modalities such as an inertial measurement unit (IMU) can boost robustness and accuracy. However, for a tight sensor fusion, accurate time synchronization of the sensors is often crucial. Changing exposure times , internal sensor filtering, multiple clock sources and unpredictable delays from operation system scheduling and data transfer can make sensor synchronization challenging. In this paper, we present VersaVIS, an Open Versatile Multi-Camera Visual- Inertial Sensor Suite aimed to be an efficient research platform for easy deployment, integration and extension for many mobile robotic applications. VersaVIS provides a complete, open-source hardware, firmware and software bundle to perform time synchronization of multiple cameras with an IMU featuring exposure compensation, host clock translation and independent and stereo camera triggering. The sensor suite supports a wide range of cameras and IMUs to match the requirements of the application. The synchronization accuracy of the framework is evaluated on multiple experiments achieving timing accuracy of less than 1 ms. Furthermore, the applicability and versatility of the sensor suite is demonstrated in multiple applications including visual- inertial SLAM, multi-camera applications, multimodal mapping, reconstruction and object based mapping. △ Less Submitted 5 December, 2019; originally announced December 2019. Journal ref: Sensors 2020, 20(5), 1439

arXiv:1911.09730 [ pdf , other ] math.DS nlin.AO doi 10.1103/PhysRevResearch.2.023409 Delay master stability of inertial oscillator networks Authors: Reyk Börner , Paul Schultz , Benjamin Ünzelmann , Deli Wang , Frank Hellmann , Jürgen Kurths Abstract : Time lags occur in a vast range of real-world dynamical systems due to finite reaction… ▽ More Time lags occur in a vast range of real-world dynamical systems due to finite reaction times or propagation speeds. Here we derive an analytical approach to determine the asymptotic stability of synchronous states in networks of coupled inertial oscillators with constant delay. Building on the master stability formalism, our technique provides necessary and sufficient delay master stability conditions. We apply it to two classes of potential future power grids, where processing delays in control dynamics will likely pose a challenge as renewable energies proliferate. Distinguishing between phase and frequency delay, our method offers an insight into how bifurcation points depend on the network topology of these system designs. △ Less Submitted 21 November, 2019; originally announced November 2019. Comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, plus 5 pages Supplemental Information incl. 1 supplemental figure Journal ref: Phys. Rev. Research 2, 023409 (2020)

arXiv:1804.06120 [ pdf , other ] cs.CV cs.RO doi 10.1109/IROS.2018.8593419 The TUM VI Benchmark for Evaluating Visual- Inertial Odometry Authors: David Schubert , Thore Goll , Nikolaus Demmel , Vladyslav Usenko , Jörg Stückler , Daniel Cremers Abstract : Visual odometry and SLAM methods have a large variety of applications in domains such as augmented reality or robotics. Complementing vision sensors with inertial measurements tremendously improves tracking accuracy and robustness, and thus has spawned large interest in the development of visual-… ▽ More Visual odometry and SLAM methods have a large variety of applications in domains such as augmented reality or robotics. Complementing vision sensors with inertial measurements tremendously improves tracking accuracy and robustness, and thus has spawned large interest in the development of visual- inertial (VI) odometry approaches. In this paper, we propose the TUM VI benchmark, a novel dataset with a diverse set of sequences in different scenes for evaluating VI odometry. It provides camera images with 1024x1024 resolution at 20 Hz, high dynamic range and photometric calibration. An IMU measures accelerations and angular velocities on 3 axes at 200 Hz, while the cameras and IMU sensors are time - synchronized in hardware. For trajectory evaluation, we also provide accurate pose ground truth from a motion capture system at high frequency (120 Hz) at the start and end of the sequences which we accurately aligned with the camera and IMU measurements. The full dataset with raw and calibrated data is publicly available. We also evaluate state-of-the-art VI odometry approaches on our dataset. △ Less Submitted 9 March, 2020; v1 submitted 17 April, 2018; originally announced April 2018. Comments: Updates compared to previous version include additional evaluations and DOI

arXiv:1706.08107 [ pdf ] cs.CV Detekcja upadku i wybranych akcji na sekwencjach obrazów cyfrowych Authors: Michal Kepski Abstract : …itself in the area of action and behavior recognition. Efficient algorithms for fall detection were developed, tested and implemented using image sequences and wireless inertial sensor worn by a monitored person. A set of descriptors for depth maps has been elaborated to permit classification of… ▽ More In recent years a growing interest on action recognition is observed, including detection of fall accident for the elderly. However, despite many efforts undertaken, the existing technology is not widely used by elderly, mainly because of its flaws like low precision, large number of false alarms, inadequate privacy preserving during data acquisition and processing. This research work meets these expectations. The work is empirical and it is situated in the field of computer vision systems. The main part of the work situates itself in the area of action and behavior recognition. Efficient algorithms for fall detection were developed, tested and implemented using image sequences and wireless inertial sensor worn by a monitored person. A set of descriptors for depth maps has been elaborated to permit classification of pose as well as the action of a person. Experimental research was carried out based on the prepared data repository consisting of synchronized depth and accelerometric data. The study was carried out in the scenario with a static camera facing the scene and an active camera observing the scene from above. The experimental results showed that the developed algorithms for fall detection have high sensitivity and specificity. The algorithm were designed with regard to low computational demands and possibility to run on ARM platforms. Several experiments including person detection, tracking and fall detection in real- time were carried out to show efficiency and reliability of the proposed solutions. △ Less Submitted 25 June, 2017; originally announced June 2017. Comments: PhD Thesis (in Polish)

arXiv:gr-qc/0604120 [ pdf , ps , other ] gr-qc astro-ph hep-th doi 10.1142/S0219887807001874 The Chrono-geometrical Structure of Special and General Relativity: a Re-Visitation of Canonical Geometrodynamics Authors: Luca Lusanna Abstract : …of the lack of an intrinsic notion of instantaneous 3-space in relativistic theories leads to a reformulation of their kinematical basis emphasizing the role of non- inertial frames centered on an arbitrary accelerated observer. In special relativity the exigence of predictability implies the adoption of the 3+1 point of view, which leads to a well… ▽ More A modern re-visitation of the consequences of the lack of an intrinsic notion of instantaneous 3-space in relativistic theories leads to a reformulation of their kinematical basis emphasizing the role of non- inertial frames centered on an arbitrary accelerated observer. In special relativity the exigence of predictability implies the adoption of the 3+1 point of view, which leads to a well posed initial value problem for field equations in a framework where the change of the convention of synchronization of distant clocks is realized by means of a gauge transformation. This point of view is also at the heart of the canonical approach to metric and tetrad gravity in globally hyperbolic asymptotically flat space- times , where the use of Shanmugadhasan canonical transformations allows the separation of the physical degrees of freedom of the gravitational field (the tidal effects) from the arbitrary gauge variables. Since a global vision of the equivalence principle implies that only global non- inertial frames can exist in general relativity, the gauge variables are naturally interpreted as generalized relativistic inertial effects, which have to be fixed to get a deterministic evolution in a given non- inertial frame. As a consequence, in each Einstein's space- time in this class the whole chrono-geometrical structure, including also the clock synchronization convention, is dynamically determined and a new approach to the Hole Argument leads to the conclusion that "gravitational field" and "space- time " are two faces of the same entity. This view allows to get a classical scenario for the unification of the four interactions in a scheme suited to the description of the solar system or our galaxy with a deperametrization to special relativity and the subsequent possibility to take the non-relativistic limit. △ Less Submitted 27 April, 2006; originally announced April 2006. Comments: 33 pages, Lectures given at the 42nd Karpacz Winter School of Theoretical Physics, "Current Mathematical Topics in Gravitation and Cosmology", Ladek, Poland, 6-11 February 2006 Journal ref: ECONFC0602061:05,2006; Int.J.Geom.Meth.Mod.Phys.4:79-114,2007