URL: https://arxiv.org/search/?query=VQF&searchtype=all&abstracts=show&order=-announced_date_first&size=50

arXiv:2607.16358 [ pdf , ps , other ] cs.IR cs.AI cs.ET A Quantum-Classical Hybrid Framework for Multivariate Time-Series Forecasting Complexity-Fidelity Trade-offs and Limitations Authors: Sanjay Chakraborty , Fredrik Heintz Abstract : …hybrid framework for multi-horizon time-series forecasting, introducing two model variants Quantum Reservoir Forecaster (QRC-F) and Variational Quantum Forecaster ( VQF -F). The proposed framework investigates the complexity-fidelity trade-off of quantum forecasting under near-term NISQ hardware constraints. Continuous time-series signals are transformed into… ▽ More This paper presents a unified quantum-classical hybrid framework for multi-horizon time-series forecasting, introducing two model variants Quantum Reservoir Forecaster (QRC-F) and Variational Quantum Forecaster ( VQF -F). The proposed framework investigates the complexity-fidelity trade-off of quantum forecasting under near-term NISQ hardware constraints. Continuous time-series signals are transformed into binary representations through uniform quantization and encoded into quantum states using angle encoding with parameterized RY rotation gates. Cross-channel entanglement layers capture dependencies among multiple variables. QRC-F utilizes a fixed random unitary quantum reservoir for stable, gradient-free temporal feature extraction, whereas VQF -F employs a trainable variational quantum circuit optimized through the parameter-shift rule to learn temporal and inter-variable patterns from Pauli expectation values. Both models replace computationally expensive quadratic self-attention with efficient linear transformations, reducing parameter complexity. A shared MIMO-based multi-horizon prediction head simultaneously generates forecasts across multiple horizons, avoiding error accumulation in recursive forecasting. Experimental evaluations on benchmark datasets, including ETTh1, ETTh2, ETTm1, ETTm2, Weather, electricity, and exchange-rate, demonstrate that VQF -F achieves superior training stability and parameter efficiency, while QRC-F provides enhanced robustness and circuit fidelity under quantum noise. The results establish a practical quantum-native forecasting framework with strong potential for deployment on near-term NISQ devices. △ Less Submitted 17 July, 2026; originally announced July 2026.

arXiv:2506.00211 [ pdf , ps , other ] eess.SP The Impact of Uniform Circular Array on Near-field ISAC Authors: Na Xue , Xidong Mu , Yue Chen , Yuanwei Liu Abstract : …where the closed-form solution to minimize the CRB of the angle is derived. Inspired by the close-form expression, a low complexity vector-based quadratic transformation ( VQF ) algorithm is proposed by invoking the Rayleigh quotient. For the non-coplanar case, where the ST is located beyond the coplanar region of the UCA, the separate CRBs over three-dimensi… ▽ More A novel uniform circular array (UCA) based near-field (NF) integrated sensing and communication (ISAC) framework is proposed, where the Cylindrical coordinate is invoked to evaluate the joint positioning performance. The joint squared position error bound (SPEB) of the sensing target (ST) is derived for the coplanar and non-coplanar cases. For the coplanar case, where the ST is located in the coplanar region of the UCA, the approximate Cram{é}r-Rao bound (CRB) expressions for the separate angle and distance estimation are given by exploiting the uniform spherical wavefront model. A SPEB minimization problem is formulated with the constraints of communication requirement and power budget, where the closed-form solution to minimize the CRB of the angle is derived. Inspired by the close-form expression, a low complexity vector-based quadratic transformation ( VQF ) algorithm is proposed by invoking the Rayleigh quotient. For the non-coplanar case, where the ST is located beyond the coplanar region of the UCA, the separate CRBs over three-dimensional coordinates and the joint SPEB approximations are derived. To minimize the SPEB performance, the semi-definite relaxation (SDR) method and extended low-complexity VQF algorithm are proposed. Numerical results validated that i) the Fisher Information Matrix about angle and distance in NF propagation can be approximated as a diagonal matrix with the trinity loss; ii) Compared with the uniform planar array, the UCA achieve better positioning performance when ST located in the coplanar of the antenna array; and iii) the proposed VQF algorithms reach higher solution precision than conventional SDR algorithm with much less computation complexity. △ Less Submitted 30 May, 2025; originally announced June 2025. Comments: Submitted to IEEE Trans, 13 pages, 9 figures

arXiv:2505.05847 [ pdf , ps , other ] cs.DS cs.DB Smaller and More Flexible Cuckoo Filters Authors: Johanna Elena Schmitz , Jens Zentgraf , Sven Rahmann Abstract : …decreases the size of Cuckoo filters not only in theory, but also in practice. A comparison with other state-of-the art filter types, Prefix filters and Vector Quotient filters ( VQFs ), shows that the reduced space overhead makes windowed Cuckoo filters the smallest filters supporting online insertions, with similarly fast queries, but longer insertion times. ▽ More Cuckoo filters are space-efficient approximate set membership data structures with a controllable false positive rate (FPR) and zero false negatives, similar to Bloom filters. In contrast to Bloom filters, Cuckoo filters store multi-bit fingerprints of keys in a hash table using variants of Cuckoo hashing, allowing each fingerprint to be stored at a small number of possible locations. Existing Cuckoo filters use fingerprints of $(k+3)$ bits per key and an additional space overhead factor of at least $1.05$ to achieve an FPR of $2^{-k}$. For $k=10$, this amounts to $1.365\, kn$ bits to store $n$ keys, which is better than $1.443\, kn$ bits for Bloom filters. The $+3$ for the fingerprint size is required to balance out the multiplied FPR caused by looking for the fingerprint at several locations. In the original Cuckoo filter, the number of hash table buckets is restricted to a power of 2, which may lead to much larger space overheads, up to $2.1\, (1+3/k)\, kn$ bits.
  We present two improvements of Cuckoo filters. First, we remove the restriction that the number of buckets must be a power of 2 by using a different placement strategy. Second, we reduce the space overhead factor of Cuckoo filters to $1.06 \, (1+2/k)$ by using overlapping windows instead of disjoint buckets to maintain the load threshold of the hash table, while reducing the number of alternative slots where any fingerprint may be found.
  A detailed evaluation demonstrates that the alternative memory layout based on overlapping windows decreases the size of Cuckoo filters not only in theory, but also in practice. A comparison with other state-of-the art filter types, Prefix filters and Vector Quotient filters ( VQFs ), shows that the reduced space overhead makes windowed Cuckoo filters the smallest filters supporting online insertions, with similarly fast queries, but longer insertion times. △ Less Submitted 8 June, 2026; v1 submitted 9 May, 2025; originally announced May 2025.

arXiv:2409.09997 [ pdf , ps , other ] cs.RO ViewActive: Active viewpoint optimization from a single image Authors: Jiayi Wu , Xiaomin Lin , Botao He , Cornelia Fermuller , Yiannis Aloimonos Abstract : …from aspect graph, which provides viewpoint optimization guidance based solely on the current 2D image input. Specifically, we introduce the 3D Viewpoint Quality Field ( VQF ), a compact and consistent representation of viewpoint quality distribution similar to an aspect graph, composed of three general-purpose viewpoint quality metrics: self-occlusion ratio,… ▽ More When observing objects, humans benefit from their spatial visualization and mental rotation ability to envision potential optimal viewpoints based on the current observation. This capability is crucial for enabling robots to achieve efficient and robust scene perception during operation, as optimal viewpoints provide essential and informative features for accurately representing scenes in 2D images, thereby enhancing downstream tasks.
  To endow robots with this human-like active viewpoint optimization capability, we propose ViewActive, a modernized machine learning approach drawing inspiration from aspect graph, which provides viewpoint optimization guidance based solely on the current 2D image input. Specifically, we introduce the 3D Viewpoint Quality Field ( VQF ), a compact and consistent representation of viewpoint quality distribution similar to an aspect graph, composed of three general-purpose viewpoint quality metrics: self-occlusion ratio, occupancy-aware surface normal entropy, and visual entropy. We utilize pre-trained image encoders to extract robust visual and semantic features, which are then decoded into the 3D VQF , allowing our model to generalize effectively across diverse objects, including unseen categories. The lightweight ViewActive network (72 FPS on a single GPU) significantly enhances the performance of state-of-the-art object recognition pipelines and can be integrated into real-time motion planning for robotic applications. Our code and dataset are available here: https://github.com/jiayi-wu-umd/ViewActive. △ Less Submitted 28 July, 2025; v1 submitted 16 September, 2024; originally announced September 2024.

arXiv:2208.07085 [ pdf , other ] quant-ph On quantum factoring using noisy intermediate scale quantum computers Authors: Vivian Phan , Arttu Pönni , Matti Raasakka , Ilkka Tittonen Abstract : We study the performance and resource usage of the variational quantum factoring ( VQF ) algorithm for different instance sizes and optimization algorithms. Our simulations show better chance of finding the ground state when using VQE rather than QAOA for optimization. In gradient-based optimization we find that the time required for quantum circuit gradient e… ▽ More We study the performance and resource usage of the variational quantum factoring ( VQF ) algorithm for different instance sizes and optimization algorithms. Our simulations show better chance of finding the ground state when using VQE rather than QAOA for optimization. In gradient-based optimization we find that the time required for quantum circuit gradient estimation is a significant problem if VQF is to become competitive with classical factoring algorithms. Further, we compare entangled and non-entangled circuits in VQE optimization and fail to see significant evidence in favour of including entanglement in the VQE circuit. △ Less Submitted 15 August, 2022; originally announced August 2022. Comments: 10 pages, 10 figures

arXiv:2203.17024 [ pdf , other ] eess.SY cs.RO eess.SP doi 10.1016/j.inffus.2022.10.014 VQF : Highly Accurate IMU Orientation Estimation with Bias Estimation and Magnetic Disturbance Rejection Authors: Daniel Laidig , Thomas Seel Abstract : The miniaturization of inertial measurement units (IMUs) facilitates their widespread use in a growing number of application domains. Orientation estimation is a prerequisite for most further data processing steps in inertial motion tracking, such as position/velocity estimation, joint angle estimation, and 3D visualization. Errors in the estimated orientations severely affect all further processi… ▽ More The miniaturization of inertial measurement units (IMUs) facilitates their widespread use in a growing number of application domains. Orientation estimation is a prerequisite for most further data processing steps in inertial motion tracking, such as position/velocity estimation, joint angle estimation, and 3D visualization. Errors in the estimated orientations severely affect all further processing steps. Recent systematic comparisons of existing algorithms show that out-of-the-box accuracy is often low and that application-specific tuning is required to obtain high accuracy. In the present work, we propose and extensively evaluate a quaternion-based orientation estimation algorithm that is based on a novel approach of filtering the acceleration measurements in an almost-inertial frame and that includes extensions for gyroscope bias estimation and magnetic disturbance rejection, as well as a variant for offline data processing. In contrast to all existing work, we perform an extensive evaluation, using a large collection of publicly available datasets and eight literature methods for comparison. The proposed method consistently outperforms all literature methods and achieves an average RMSE of 2.9°, while the errors obtained with literature methods range from 5.3° to 16.7°. Since the evaluation was performed with one single fixed parametrization across a very diverse dataset collection, we conclude that the proposed method provides unprecedented out-of-the-box performance for a broad range of motions, sensor hardware, and environmental conditions. This gain in orientation estimation accuracy is expected to advance the field of IMU-based motion analysis and provide performance benefits in numerous applications. The provided open-source implementation makes it easy to employ the proposed method. △ Less Submitted 27 October, 2022; v1 submitted 31 March, 2022; originally announced March 2022. Comments: Accepted manuscript Journal ref: Information Fusion 91 (2023) 187-204

arXiv:2012.07825 [ pdf , other ] quant-ph doi 10.1038/s41534-021-00478-z Analyzing the Performance of Variational Quantum Factoring on a Superconducting Quantum Processor Authors: Amir H. Karamlou , William A. Simon , Amara Katabarwa , Travis L. Scholten , Borja Peropadre , Yudong Cao Abstract : …such hybrid algorithms could provide a quantum advantage. In this work, we study a QAOA-based quantum optimization algorithm by implementing the Variational Quantum Factoring ( VQF ) algorithm. We execute experimental demonstrations using a superconducting quantum processor and investigate the trade-off between quantum resources (number of qubits and circuit d… ▽ More In the near-term, hybrid quantum-classical algorithms hold great potential for outperforming classical approaches. Understanding how these two computing paradigms work in tandem is critical for identifying areas where such hybrid algorithms could provide a quantum advantage. In this work, we study a QAOA-based quantum optimization algorithm by implementing the Variational Quantum Factoring ( VQF ) algorithm. We execute experimental demonstrations using a superconducting quantum processor and investigate the trade-off between quantum resources (number of qubits and circuit depth) and the probability that a given biprime is successfully factored. In our experiments, the integers 1099551473989, 3127, and 6557 are factored with 3, 4, and 5 qubits, respectively, using a QAOA ansatz with up to 8 layers and we are able to identify the optimal number of circuit layers for a given instance to maximize success probability. Furthermore, we demonstrate the impact of different noise sources on the performance of QAOA and reveal the coherent error caused by the residual ZZ-coupling between qubits as a dominant source of error in the superconducting quantum processor. △ Less Submitted 9 March, 2021; v1 submitted 14 December, 2020; originally announced December 2020. Journal ref: npj Quantum Inf 7, 156 (2021)

arXiv:2004.12447 [ pdf , other ] cs.ET Resiliency Analysis and Improvement of Variational Quantum Factoring in Superconducting Qubit Authors: Ling Qiu , Mahabubul Alam , Abdullah Ash-Saki , Swaroop Ghosh Abstract : …Quantum Approximate Optimization Algorithm (QAOA) can solve the prime factorization problem in near-term noisy quantum computers. Conventional Variational Quantum Factoring ( VQF ) requires a large number of 2-qubit gates (especially for factoring a large number) resulting in deep circuits. The output quality of the deep quantum circuit is degraded due to erro… ▽ More Variational algorithm using Quantum Approximate Optimization Algorithm (QAOA) can solve the prime factorization problem in near-term noisy quantum computers. Conventional Variational Quantum Factoring ( VQF ) requires a large number of 2-qubit gates (especially for factoring a large number) resulting in deep circuits. The output quality of the deep quantum circuit is degraded due to errors limiting the computational power of quantum computing. In this paper, we explore various transformations to optimize the QAOA circuit for integer factorization. We propose two criteria to select the optimal quantum circuit that can improve the noise resiliency of VQF . △ Less Submitted 26 April, 2020; originally announced April 2020. Comments: 6 pages, 7 figures, submitted to ISLPED 2020 for review

arXiv:1808.08927 [ pdf , other ] quant-ph Variational Quantum Factoring Authors: Eric R. Anschuetz , Jonathan P. Olson , Alán Aspuru-Guzik , Yudong Cao Abstract : …Shor's algorithm, which employs established techniques to map the factoring problem to the ground state of an Ising Hamiltonian. The proposed variational quantum factoring ( VQF ) algorithm starts by simplifying equations over Boolean variables in a preprocessing step to reduce the number of qubits needed for the Hamiltonian. Then, it seeks an approximate… ▽ More Integer factorization has been one of the cornerstone applications of the field of quantum computing since the discovery of an efficient algorithm for factoring by Peter Shor. Unfortunately, factoring via Shor's algorithm is well beyond the capabilities of today's noisy intermediate-scale quantum (NISQ) devices. In this work, we revisit the problem of factoring, developing an alternative to Shor's algorithm, which employs established techniques to map the factoring problem to the ground state of an Ising Hamiltonian. The proposed variational quantum factoring ( VQF ) algorithm starts by simplifying equations over Boolean variables in a preprocessing step to reduce the number of qubits needed for the Hamiltonian. Then, it seeks an approximate ground state of the resulting Ising Hamiltonian by training variational circuits using the quantum approximate optimization algorithm (QAOA). We benchmark the VQF algorithm on various instances of factoring and present numerical results on its performance. △ Less Submitted 27 August, 2018; originally announced August 2018. Comments: 18 pages, 6 figures