URL: https://openresearch-repository.anu.edu.au/items/db91f02d-9a17-4ead-bc64-86ed5bc9c6f4

Non-linear complementary filters on the special orthogonal group
Skip to main content
X
Cultural advice
The Australian National University acknowledges, celebrates and pays our respects to the Ngunnawal and Ngambri people of the Canberra region and to all First Nations Australians on whose traditional lands we meet and work, and whose cultures are among the oldest continuing cultures in human history.
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples are advised that ANU Library collections may include images, names, voices, and other representations of deceased persons.
Material in the collection may contain terms, language or views that reflect the period in which the item was created and may be considered inappropriate today.
Cultural advice
Open Research Repository
Library
Non-linear complementary filters on the special orthogonal group
Loading...
Date
2008
Authors
Mahony, Robert
Hamel, Tarek
Pflimlin, Jean-Michel
Journal Title
Journal ISSN
Volume Title
Publisher
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE Inc)
Abstract
This paper considers the problem of obtaining good attitude estimates from measurements obtained from typical low cost inertial measurement units. The outputs of such systems are characterized by high noise levels and time varying additive biases. We formulate the filtering problem as deterministic observer kinematics posed directly on the special orthogonal group SO(3) driven by reconstructed attitude and angular velocity measurements. Lyapunov analysis results for the proposed observers are derived that ensure almost global stability of the observer error. The approach taken leads to an observer that we term the direct complementary filter. By exploiting the geometry of the special orthogonal group a related observer, termed the passive complementary filter, is derived that decouples the gyro measurements from the reconstructed attitude in the observer inputs. Both the direct and passive filters can be extended to estimate gyro bias online. The passive filter is further developed to provide a formulation in terms of the measurement error that avoids any algebraic reconstruction of the attitude. This leads to an observer on SO(3), termed the explicit complementary filter, that requires only accelerometer and gyro outputs; is suitable for implementation on embedded hardware; and provides good attitude estimates as well as estimating the gyro biases online. The performance of the observers are demonstrated with a set of experiments performed on a robotic test-bed and a radio controlled unmanned aerial vehicle.
Show more
Description
Keywords
Keywords: Active filters; Feature extraction; Gyroscopes; Passive filters; Speech processing; Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV); Velocity measurement; Wave filters; Attitude estimates; Complementary filter; Nonlinear observer; Special orthogonal group; Units of measur Attitude estimates; Complementary filter; Nonlinear observer; Special orthogonal group
Citation
URI
http://hdl.handle.net/1885/26479
Collections
ANU Research Publications
Source
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control
Type
Journal article
Book Title
Entity type
Access Statement
License Rights
DOI
10.1109/tac.2008.923738
Restricted until
2037-12-31
Downloads
File
Description
01_Mahony_Non-linear_complementary_2008.pdf
(937.31 KB)
Full item page
DSpace software
copyright © 2002-2026
LYRASIS
Privacy policy
End User Agreement