URL: https://arxiv.org/search/?query=gravity+acceleration+decoupling+inertial&searchtype=all&abstracts=show&order=-announced_date_first&size=50

arXiv:2511.13216 [ pdf , ps , other ] cs.RO GaRLILEO: Gravity -aligned Radar-Leg- Inertial Enhanced Odometry Authors: Chiyun Noh , Sangwoo Jung , Hanjun Kim , Yafei Hu , Laura Herlant , Ayoung Kim Abstract : …is a preliminary requirement for stable locomotion, localization, and mapping. Traditional proprioceptive approaches, which rely on leg kinematics sensor modalities and inertial sensing, suffer from irrepressible vertical drift caused by frequent contact impacts, foot slippage, and vibrations, particularly affected by inaccurate roll and pitch estimation. Ex… ▽ More Deployment of legged robots for navigating challenging terrains (e.g., stairs, slopes, and unstructured environments) has gained increasing preference over wheel-based platforms. In such scenarios, accurate odometry estimation is a preliminary requirement for stable locomotion, localization, and mapping. Traditional proprioceptive approaches, which rely on leg kinematics sensor modalities and inertial sensing, suffer from irrepressible vertical drift caused by frequent contact impacts, foot slippage, and vibrations, particularly affected by inaccurate roll and pitch estimation. Existing methods incorporate exteroceptive sensors such as LiDAR or cameras. Further enhancement has been introduced by leveraging gravity vector estimation to add additional observations on roll and pitch, thereby increasing the accuracy of vertical pose estimation. However, these approaches tend to degrade in feature-sparse or repetitive scenes and are prone to errors from double-integrated IMU acceleration . To address these challenges, we propose GaRLILEO, a novel gravity -aligned continuous-time radar-leg- inertial odometry framework. GaRLILEO decouples velocity from the IMU by building a continuous-time ego-velocity spline from SoC radar Doppler and leg kinematics information, enabling seamless sensor fusion which mitigates odometry distortion. In addition, GaRLILEO can reliably capture accurate gravity vectors leveraging a novel soft S2-constrained gravity factor, improving vertical pose accuracy without relying on LiDAR or cameras. Evaluated on a self-collected real-world dataset with diverse indoor-outdoor trajectories, GaRLILEO demonstrates state-of-the-art accuracy, particularly in vertical odometry estimation on stairs and slopes. We open-source both our dataset and algorithm to foster further research in legged robot odometry and SLAM. https://garlileo.github.io/GaRLILEO △ Less Submitted 27 June, 2026; v1 submitted 17 November, 2025; originally announced November 2025. Comments: Accepted for publication at the International Journal of Robotics Research on 30 April, 2026

arXiv:2510.24533 [ pdf , ps , other ] cs.RO GeVI-SLAM: Gravity -Enhanced Stereo Visua Inertial SLAM for Underwater Robots Authors: Yuan Shen , Yuze Hong , Guangyang Zeng , Tengfei Zhang , Pui Yi Chui , Ziyang Hong , Junfeng Wu Abstract : Accurate visual inertial simultaneous localization and mapping (VI SLAM) for underwater robots remains a significant challenge due to frequent visual degeneracy and insufficient… ▽ More Accurate visual inertial simultaneous localization and mapping (VI SLAM) for underwater robots remains a significant challenge due to frequent visual degeneracy and insufficient inertial measurement unit (IMU) motion excitation. In this paper, we present GeVI-SLAM, a gravity -enhanced stereo VI SLAM system designed to address these issues. By leveraging the stereo camera's direct depth estimation ability, we eliminate the need to estimate scale during IMU initialization, enabling stable operation even under low acceleration dynamics. With precise gravity initialization, we decouple the pitch and roll from the pose estimation and solve a 4 degrees of freedom (DOF) Perspective-n-Point (PnP) problem for pose tracking. This allows the use of a minimal 3-point solver, which significantly reduces computational time to reject outliers within a Random Sample Consensus framework. We further propose a bias-eliminated 4-DOF PnP estimator with provable consistency, ensuring the relative pose converges to the true value as the feature number increases. To handle dynamic motion, we refine the full 6-DOF pose while jointly estimating the IMU covariance, enabling adaptive weighting of the gravity prior. Extensive experiments on simulated and real-world data demonstrate that GeVI-SLAM achieves higher accuracy and greater stability compared to state-of-the-art methods. △ Less Submitted 28 October, 2025; originally announced October 2025.

arXiv:2401.01081 [ pdf , other ] cs.RO PLE-SLAM: A Visual- Inertial SLAM Based on Point-Line Features and Efficient IMU Initialization Authors: Jiaming He , Mingrui Li , Yangyang Wang , Hongyu Wang Abstract : Visual- inertial SLAM is crucial in various fields, such as aerial vehicles, industrial robots, and autonomous driving. The fusion of camera and… ▽ More Visual- inertial SLAM is crucial in various fields, such as aerial vehicles, industrial robots, and autonomous driving. The fusion of camera and inertial measurement unit (IMU) makes up for the shortcomings of a signal sensor, which significantly improves the accuracy and robustness of localization in challenging environments. This article presents PLE-SLAM, an accurate and real-time visual- inertial SLAM algorithm based on point-line features and efficient IMU initialization. First, we use parallel computing methods to extract features and compute descriptors to ensure real-time performance. Adjacent short line segments are merged into long line segments, and isolated short line segments are directly deleted. Second, a rotation-translation- decoupled initialization method is extended to use both points and lines. Gyroscope bias is optimized by tightly coupling IMU measurements and image observations. Accelerometer bias and gravity direction are solved by an analytical method for efficiency. To improve the system's intelligence in handling complex environments, a scheme of leveraging semantic information and geometric constraints to eliminate dynamic features and A solution for loop detection and closed-loop frame pose estimation using CNN and GNN are integrated into the system. All networks are accelerated to ensure real-time performance. The experiment results on public datasets illustrate that PLE-SLAM is one of the state-of-the-art visual- inertial SLAM systems. △ Less Submitted 5 January, 2024; v1 submitted 2 January, 2024; originally announced January 2024.

arXiv:physics/0406159 [ pdf ] physics.gen-ph gr-qc Black hole immunity theorem and dark matter Authors: L. K. Chavda , Abhijit L. Chavda Abstract : We prove that the primordial black holes in the early universe did not decay until the gravity … ▽ More We prove that the primordial black holes in the early universe did not decay until the gravity decoupled from the other interactions. Rabinowitz' two objections to the formation of Holeums are shown to be inapplicable. We show that primordial black holes having masses beween 8x10^18 GeV and 10^19 GeV formed gravitational bound states called Holeums when the temperature of the universe was between 10^30 K and 10^29 K. We prove that the black holes in a fire ball produced in an accelerator such as the LHC, modified into an inertial confinement type set up, will not emit Hawking radiation as long as the fire ball is maintained in thermal equilibrium or is allowed to expand adiabatically. △ Less Submitted 23 October, 2005; v1 submitted 30 June, 2004; originally announced June 2004. Comments: 8 pages,1 Table,PDF.Completely revised.Inapplicability of Rabinowitz' objections demonstrated.Control of Hawking Radiation in an inertial confinement type set up suggested